
SPEAKER_02:
okay recording is in pro uh is in progress it says so hello everybody um today delighted uh to have uh christoph uh yance with us uh we did attempt to record this uh christophe and i two weeks ago but i forgot to press the record button so we spoke for an hour or so and then it was not recorded so this is uh round two so hello christoph how are you

SPEAKER_00:
Hi, Rob.
Nice to meet you again.
I'm doing good.
I hope you too.
Thanks for the invitation.

SPEAKER_02:
Fantastic, yeah.
So Christoph and I, our paths crossed for the first time way back.
back in 2015 when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch.
And this was around the time that Christoph was still at the Ethereum Foundation.
And then I think I crossed paths across a number of times since and Kieran's too.
Indeed.
So, Christoph.
What were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

SPEAKER_00:
So the journey started in 2013.
I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually about self-organizing systems.
So like biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things.
So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior.
And I came across Bitcoin, which is just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency.
But the reason I came...
across this was i was looking for cheap gpus like graphic cards and the bitcoin miners were selling their gpu mining rigs to get some fpgas and later asics and so that's how i got into what's bitcoin mining and so i bought my first bitcoin got into this bubble
did read everything i could about it and then i came across the white paper from vitalik early 2014 something like january february and some bitcoin forum somewhere and i was already totally in love with the idea of bitcoin being a decentralized currency and all the
characteristics and features of it and this white paper vitalik and if you read it again it's almost a prophecy and except of nfts everything's in there from daos from ens like names this domain name systems and all of that so for me it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as bitcoin
But just not a currency, but everything else.
And so then I started reading everything about it.
And in 2014, in summer, I read that the crowd sale was in 2014, right?
So around the time the crowd sale happened, I watched a video from Gavin Wood.
He was somewhere in the Scandinavix, some conference there.
um the nordics and he talked about ethereum i loved it and he said you want to open up an office in berlin uh looking for c plus plus developers i was a c plus plus developer so in trajectory physics it's 90 software development so i said well i want to do this so i took my parental leave time plus some vacation time from and passed my phd for like three or six months
and said, I will return after I'm done.
I thought this was just a short project because they raised money, maybe six, maybe 12 months, 18 months or so, then it's over.
When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD.
So I worked there with Ethereum, with Kevin Wood, it was a great time, and then just decided to stay.
It was so exciting.

SPEAKER_02:
So you never got to be a doctor?
No, I'm not a doctor.

SPEAKER_00:
I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity.
I worked for three years on that.
But I also had at the time, I think, four or five kids.
I needed some money.
I didn't get much money as a PhD student.
So I did software development as a side hustle, basically.
and so when i got this project i said well let's do this for two or three months as a parent belief time and then i can return and then i decided to really interrupt my phd is that i will maybe return one year later because i thought the foundation would eventually run out of money because they're not making any profits it just raised donations then it was spent them that's over then i can continue my phd that was originally a plan just came different i mean i guess it's never too late right
I actually sometimes think about it, but I should return.
It's just so much to learn again.
I'm right now doing tokenize it.
I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies.
It works very well.
And so currently I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon.

SPEAKER_02:
No, because I mean, famously you had, you know, Dr. Gavin Wood and Dr. Christian Reitweissner as well.
And I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well.

SPEAKER_01:
There was definitely.
I also dropped out of mine.
I was actually in mathematical physics too.
Interesting.
Similar background.

SPEAKER_00:
It's actually the same.
Like theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics.
I enjoyed it very much.
I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development.
It was really fun.

SPEAKER_01:
Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join.
I don't know if there's anything that needs happening.
He gets some browser issues.

SPEAKER_02:
yeah yeah well he'll pop up and we can add him or if he's i'll say then then never mind so so so christoph in terms of um you know getting hired into f dev and i'm sorry if i just missed it so

SPEAKER_00:
how did that happen did you you meet gav at a meetup did you say yes i actually i listened only to his talk it was a online thing and i actually just wrote him an email said look i would love to join ethereum love what you're doing and he invited me to meet me in kreuzberg berlin
so which again is about two hours try from here so i went up there met him i remember the first conversation he was talking about all the stuff they were going to build and said well what what can you do and i just asked him what's like the most complicated stuff you have right now like give me a complicated task i somehow can figure it out so he talked about the ethereum rich machine which needed some testing
So I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine or like writing tests for it.
Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about.
Meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level, I did understand what Ethereum was about.
But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper, which is still incredible work.
Like it's such a great specification, different from Bitcoin, really having a specification.
So multiple clients could be built.
And in there, he defined the Ethereum virtual machine.
and i think i read the paper six seven times i felt like it was one out of don't know 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper i did corrections to it i have some pull requests actually in the yellow paper github repo um added missing definitions and stuff like that
And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were with the help of the C++ client, because this was his team.
So I was working also on the C++ code base.
And so Geth, PyEthereum, also the JavaScript version, and what else did we have?
Like Haskell client and others.
I'm basically using my tests to see if they implemented the image machine, also the state transitions and block creation correctly.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, just, just to have some timeline for the, for the viewers.
So, um, Vitalik wrote the white paper in November, 2013.
Um, various other people sort of joined in on the efforts, uh, in December, including, uh, including Gav and Jeff who, uh, who started the C++ and Go, uh, clients, uh, respectively at the very end.
Oh my goodness.
at the very at the very end of uh at the very end of uh of december kind of christmas projects for them both january 2014 he had sort of like the the public announcement of ethereum at the at the bitcoin miami conference um it was as early as april 2014 that gav wrote the yellow paper which is you know as you're saying the sort of formal specification um
you had the crowd sale between july and september 2014 um so then yeah you you were coming in right after that you know so you had a wave of arrivals in september and october of that year essentially because the crowd sale had happened there was some money to actually hire people
um and then talking about you know where you where you met there uh initially that group so fdev were and is a company coordinating the development of of ethereum stuff so it's a subsidiary of the ethereum foundation um
were working initially in a co-working space but then got an offer and it was between august and november of that year that the office was getting like you know done up and tidied and then in november you had devcon zero um you know the first conference uh you know an internal one
where a lot of the people, that was their first sort of face-to-face meetings.
How was DEVCON Zero?
How was that?
What was that like?

SPEAKER_00:
It was like a company retreat.
So it was not a public conference.
Even though there were some outsiders who felt like part of the community, maybe also pushed some code.
I remember, I was in his name again, wrote the book also about Ethereum, did Lexus.
from IBM.
I think Henning was also there, just as an example of some people who were like, reading about Ethereum, interested in joining.
Of course, Joseph Rubin.

SPEAKER_02:
Roman was there.

SPEAKER_00:
But it was mostly developers.
But also, I think Stefan was already there.
So they had already the London team.
So it was like an internal Ethereum meeting, kind of a meetup almost, I think three days or so.
Five days even.
So it was a full week.
I was there for the full week, as far as I can remember.
I did a presentation about testing, how the test suite is very important.
Yes, we had Remix projects, Solidity project, I think, mostly started at the time.
Gavin used this for explaining his vision of Ethereum as a platform for decentralized application, so building Swarm.
I don't know if Swarm and Rispos already launched there, but at least take the generic idea, the MIS browser,
so all those ideas are really sketched out there like the technical roadmap what we are going to build and because we started just of course with the basic clients like implementing the protocol but he took it like kind of what are we going to do in the next 12 months the miss browser
remix of those tools to have a platform for these and those applications.
I remember one slide, which I think I posted on Twitter a while ago.
You have those three circles.
One circle is at one node.
You would see they are connecting on the blockchain, using Swarm for the data, Whisper for the messages.
This whole picture was painted there.
And there are people attending, I think around 50 people, plus, minus 10, don't know the exact number, where most of the developers talking about code, coding there.
Joseph, I remember him being there saying, well, all of you, you will create your own companies, becoming millionaires.
I remember Joseph talking about that.
And I think mostly he was right.
So most of those people in the room...

SPEAKER_02:
in one way or another co-founded founded or early part of companies building on top of ethereum in the years to come yeah yeah um let me see if i can do a little a little screen share no no i can't work out how not not to worry but but yeah there's this present button
Does that not work?
Yeah, I don't see that.
Is that on the right-hand side somewhere or at the bottom?

SPEAKER_01:
Maybe you have a different... For me, I appear on the top right and below.
And to the right of me below, there's a present button with like a plus.

SPEAKER_02:
Oh, never mind.
Never mind.
I was just going to show the iconic photo of people at DevCon Zero, right?
You know, that's this big group shot with nearly everyone who was out there.
You know, so that's a classic.
ethereum photo so i was looking sorry there's there's like 11 of the videos they're still around from devcon zero i think they're around 20 sessions i'm still trying to dig out the the others some of them including yours i have not managed to find yet

SPEAKER_00:
It was only about the test suite, how it built it, how people would use it.
It was rather technical.
There was not much of a vision in there.

SPEAKER_03:
Well, Lefteris presented on Emacs, so you're not the most boring talk.

SPEAKER_00:
Again, it was just some nerds starting.
Also, for most of them, it was the first time we actually met.
Now, of course, the C++ team, they didn't know each other because they're working in the co-working space.
Lev Teres and others were there.
But then, let's say, I think it was the first time I actually met Vitalik.
because he came there.
Then, of course, Jeffrey and his team, Stefan Tual and his team, Joseph Lubin.
So for me, it was the first time to meet all of them and having talks.
And since we really had time, five days, a small group of people, we actually do have time to eat together to talk.
So it was not so crowded maybe as DEF CON is today.
Very intimate.
It was good.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah, I mean, far from it.

SPEAKER_01:
One thing I can't quite remember.
So there was a time there was an Ethereum slack that was kind of open to the public.
You know, there were a lot of people.
The sort of Ethereum affiliation status was fairly vague at that point.
and we were you know i i remember we were using skype a lot in those days just the team um and like vitalik liked to skype um and then at some point i sort of lost the thread of like
where the core I can't remember where the core development discussions were happening.
And I'll maybe I'll ask Jim to comment also just like those tests.
We kept like getting them.
And I think I'm thinking of some a little bit earlier on and we'd build them.
And Jim was mostly working on them and one update on the like passing percentage, which would always be between like 93 and 98%.
And then something would change, you know.
um but yeah like where did the discussion because yeah between like sale and devcon zero i think it kind of got a little bit
like moved around where the dev discussion was.

SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, it was mostly Skype.
We also had Skype channels for almost everything, like the C++ team and so on.
Then in a short time, there was a note taker, which had a name also with E something.
Etherpad?
Yeah, Etherpad, something like this, right?
There were some notes being written there, but the communication was really, I would say 99% Skype for me.
Later on, we used a tool,
Based on GitHub, what was the name of it?

SPEAKER_02:
Gitter.
It was called Gitter.

SPEAKER_00:
Gitter came later.
This was like the replacement for Skype, but I didn't use it too much.
This was actually during the time when I was actually leaving.
But it was done, used also by a C++ team.
There you had a channel per GitHub repo.
This was during the time that GitHub was completely reorganized because at the beginning it was like one big repo with everything.
Then we had those submodules.
It was so messy.
And then during this process, we got Gitter.
But yeah, for me, it was mostly Skype.

SPEAKER_02:
yeah and and then annoyingly that kind of means a lot of these early discussions are kind of like a bit lost because nobody is is using skype and skype is getting like deleted this is happening in february of next year oh i thought it happened already so you can still request a download and i did and then i haven't heard anything back and i want to do that to see if i can get some of those so everybody apply to download your your skype data
i remember the with with gitter there was a discussion about this that i was involved with at the ef later which was saying the problem with skype is it wasn't discoverable you know you had to add you had to request to be added but you had to know what was there to be able to do that request so it was a bit of a chicken and egg situation
Whereas Gitter, it was like a one-to-one with the repositories.
So if you're using a repo, there you go.
There's a one-to-one channel with that.
And it was discoverable and archived.
But then Slack, I think, was even earlier.
Oh, and there was the forum as well, right?
It was an Ethereum forum too.

SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, it was important.
And then Slack, I think I got introduced to Slack by Stéphane Toual when he created a community for the DAO.
When he looked for a new communication tool, he went with Slack.
And at that time, it was not like today, like a business tool for the company.
It was really communities.
Like we had 5,000 people in our Slack, which is not how it's used today.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah, yeah.
So welcome, Jim.
Are your technical problems?

SPEAKER_04:
Hi, sorry.
I had some technical problems for a while there.
I don't know.
I'm just listening to you guys.
What happened that brought the whole world to Zoom suddenly?

SPEAKER_01:
It was in waves.
On my side...

SPEAKER_04:
I don't know.
I just woke up one day and everything was Zoomed from then on.

SPEAKER_01:
It was like a statistical phase transition.
I think it was two phases.
I would always get invited to corporate, let's say 2017 to 2019 when I was doing primarily BD, I found that I would get invited to any of 10 video conferencing tools.
And, like, you know, what was the Cisco one?
WebEx.
That was horrible.
I would get that a lot.
Google meetings didn't feel sufficiently corporate or something, even though it was okay.
And Zoom had the best quality for a while.
And I found that everyone picked Zoom at the same time, like mid-2018, let's say.

SPEAKER_02:
I think it was just quality to me.
Yeah.
i mean microsoft really fumbled right skype had got such a lead for so long but zoom just seemed more reliable whatever weird little proprietary magic they had going on yeah and then i guess yeah i guess i was under the impression that like zoom was for businesses

SPEAKER_01:
I think that's, well, that is true.
But it was just that still, I mean, this has gotten way better in the last 10 years, but still nothing really works for reliable video over the internet.
It's just much better than what...
existed but there was a free version always and it would just like time you out so like they had a fairly viral acquisition loop where like i was just going to say in the pandemic uh once when people were locked down it became a consumer tool where people would have like yard large yoga classes or you know sermons or whatever with like 500 people on a zoom and then everyone yeah

SPEAKER_04:
I remember it well.
All of a sudden, my parents were calling me up and they were like, we found this awesome new tool.
You've probably never heard of it.
It's called Zoom.

SPEAKER_03:
But yeah, there were like 10.

SPEAKER_02:
Let's move on from sharing about video platforms.
So I look back.
So Jim's first commits on the Haskell client were mid-September 2014.
So, you know, a couple of months ahead of DEVCON 0 that you'd had the yellow paper for five months at that time.
And I did find on our Slack,
um you know a bit of a thread where where things i think from you christoph were were being discussed by jim i don't know did you guys interact directly at all on on testing jim christoph not directly not as far as i can remember i mean maybe there was some messages i mean it's about it has been a while ago

SPEAKER_04:
I could be wrong.
I may have met you briefly in London when we had that conference.
But it would have been like quick greetings at an after party or something.

SPEAKER_00:
I mean, 10 years ago, lots of people, sure.
We were testing GitHub repo and we had all the major clients using it.
And I was interacting, mostly asking, responding questions.
I mean, of course, the C++ time I was super close to.
I used the C++ time also to pre-fill the tests.
So this was...
per default right, except we found there was a test failing, but actually C++ was wrong.
So sometimes this happened.
The test was not really failing, just C++ was wrong.
But in the maturity of cases, C++ was right.
So we were just having those conversations, and we found tons of issues.
We did, not just in the beginning, I wrote those tests using actually bytecode, the very first test.
Then I went to a low-level Lisp-like language.
This was LLL.
This was the...
precursor to Solidity by Gavin.
And then in the end, actually, I had automated fast testing where I wrote software that would create thousands of tests.
We had some AWS, like over 100 cores of machines constantly creating tests.
We had always some failing on some versions of Geth or other clients.
So this was mostly what I did during one and a half years.

SPEAKER_02:
right right so so yeah i mean i guess for the for the viewers something that ethereum chose to do differently from bitcoin was to have this specification separate from the client software right so you know when bitcoin started uh it was the code that happened first and the the white paper afterwards but but the white paper wasn't a protocol specification so um you know gav
was doing that yellow paper spec in parallel with the C++ client, which was sort of the first one, while you have Vitalik working on the Python client, Jeff working on the Go internally, but then you've got all these other clients as well, right?
So the Java one by Roman, I think, started in about April or May.
You know, ourselves, Jim and Kieran here with...
with a Haskell client starting in September.
You had JavaScript as well.

SPEAKER_00:
Right.
It's more like a library.
I don't know if it's really like a syncing client, but they have all the tools so you can, in your web app, kind of integrate parts of it to verify certain states.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah.
I mean, I think maybe they had a syncing client at some point, apart from it obviously couldn't actually keep up, but theoretical.

SPEAKER_02:
And...
And yeah, like a little later, there was a Ruby client as well.
And yeah, at one point, there were eight different clients.

SPEAKER_00:
Right.
If you want to, I can tell the story of why we all are using Geth today.
Yeah, please do.
Because this is absolutely not a given.
At the time, of course, everyone had different opinions.
But the C++ client was really the fastest, the most solid one, passing all the tests and so on.
But Gavin always wanted to add new features.
We went to a refactoring, and he was a perfectionist, which is not bad for this kind of software.
and then the time came for the security audit because everybody wants to launch ethereum now and he said before we launch it those clients needs to be have a proper security audit by an external company and one of the companies doing this was deja vu in seattle so i actually went there with a team for the audit and because gavin wanted to build some more features that well let's just guess can go first let's first order the gold client when they are done i'm done with the features i want to build and then we're going into the audit for the c++ client
So Geth was audited.
They had some issues.
They fixed the issues.
And now it's fine.
And so there was technically no reason why not.
Well, actually, we could launch Ethereum now.
We have a fully audited client.
Testnet is running for a while.
No major issues.
No fading tests for a long time.
So why would we wait for the C++ client to be audited?
I mean, they all really had the pressure of money was running out.
We need to launch now.
And then a decision was made.
Let's launch this Geth.
uh they can still use c plus plus it's just not audited let's say in two months or so the audit is done and then they can use c plus plus even more if they want so but then the big mistake was in my view when they made this announcement of you can start now they recommended using guess because this was the audited one so almost everybody um one guess
This was like we started with almost 100% guess, and then there was just a minor other clients using it.
Only very few did use them.
And so after the audit was done, nobody switched.
We're like, sure, but guess is running.
I'm synced.
What's the issue?
Why should I switch?
And so we had this 19, 10, or 18, 20 distribution.
It just stayed like this.
So if Gavin would have been...
either say, let's just do the audit now and we just have both audited and then start.
Maybe we'd have 50-50.
Or even the other way around, if they would have first audited the Z++ and Ethereum would have been launched without a guest audit, they would have received a total switch.
And then, of course, money was going low in the foundation.
They had to reduce the team.
And because Geth was the most used one, there were some issues with Gavin.
another story, maybe have a talk with him.
And so in the end, Ming decided to basically kick out the complete C++ type.
This was then shortly before DEF CON 1.
So something like November, October-ish.
But yeah, I think the reason for that was also C++ type wasn't really that used.
Also, there are other reasons as well.
But you can see how a tiny thing can have such big consequences down the road, like him doing Polkadot today and all of that.
And he was great.
I mean, I really, I still think, I think maybe we would have had a mistake in sharding way earlier if Gavin would have stayed.
So without him, they moved slower.
And of course, the price went up.
There were no security relevant things.
So changes happened not quickly anymore, but take more time and so on.
But I think this was a big loss for Ethereum that Gavin left basically in 2015.

SPEAKER_01:
yeah it's amazing the client side was the cause i think it was part of it but it uh you know having um the the process maybe started uh with the red wedding which we just uh in some other early days of ethereum episodes like he um
I remember very clearly in the room, I was like two weeks into my Ethereum tenure at that time that he was talking about brain drain if it was only going to be a nonprofit foundation and not going to have a commercial arm.

SPEAKER_00:
Yes, there were more issues than that, definitely.
Like this was not the deciding part, but it was like those things were adding up.
I remember that Gavin had this idea of turning the foundation into a DAO and then having for-profit entity next to it, which would build things and make money.
So there were many different commercial ideas at the time.
So he then basically started on his own ETH Core.
I remember he wanted to have me as part of it, but I decided to do Zlockit at the time.
So that's why I did not became a co-founder of ETH Core.
Another story, we can go into this if you want.
You know what happened after that.
But there are many reasons we are part of it.
I think also him and Ming didn't really get along too much.
There was not really a trust relationship going on.
Of course, money running out, different visions of how Ethereum should evolve technically and economically, if you want.
all played a role but i think it was just one part that the c++ client wasn't that much wasn't really used that much and the reason for that was gas being audited and be launching without an audit for the c++ time yeah uh i mean talking about features so so many things happened right

SPEAKER_02:
You know, Gav had this period of incredible productivity between that December and that April of getting from nothing, you know, just like just having the white paper all the way through to having a working client, you know, having the yellow paper.
as you mentioned you know there's this this diagram showing how how whisper and ethereum and swarm were intended uh to fit together and i i found some more timing on that was so swarm was envisaged by daniel nagy as far back as 2011.
know it was a it was a year an idea he'd been working on for like three years before that i i spotted on the whisper presentation that gavin did that he that that was a pre ethereum idea as well so it was probably only when all of these people came together it was like well you've got this storage idea you've got this blockchain kind of like cpu databasey idea
oh and then you if you have messaging you know all of these things can can fit together but it's always it's also we're going to build our own ide as well browser yeah uh i'm sorry plus the myth browser

SPEAKER_00:
the complete thing it's a it's a complete platform for decentralized applications end to end this was the big mission and also this was what attracted me to it i mean having someone having a really proud vision of a new internet if you want that's what he called that three that's where the term comes from because it was not just a little tool it was a complete new internet called web3 from data to messaging to smart contract blockchains to ide to browser
And this vision was very, very attractive.
This attracted all the talent and the developers because they loved building that.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah, I mean, it's a very, very expensive vision.
And yeah, it was, you know, Gav, as you say, you know, Web3 was him.
Prior to that, the language I saw was really about Bitcoin with smart contracts.
You know, that was really sort of the genesis of the talent going through.
uh that that journey of colored coins and master coins and meta protocols um and that that kind of positioning of bitcoin is a calculator and ethereum's a smartphone
but it was all that kind of like blockchains and applications, right?
It wasn't that full Web3 vision, which I think... And that really came from Gavin.

SPEAKER_00:
We have to attribute this to him.
He was having this big vision.
This attracted also so many people.
It attracted also even the business people.
They could now understand what it actually is.
Other than this was just like tech.
Let's see.
But this is like a broad vision of how business function, how like this new financial world would happen.
They could understand this far better
Then having this iPhone calculator comparison, this was maybe a nice technical thing.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah.
Yeah.
But then for it being a very expensive vision, that's that's a lot of work.
Sure.

SPEAKER_00:
But I just thought somewhere.

SPEAKER_02:
That's it.
So, I mean, you know, talking about Gavin, the features.
So, yeah, there's a ton of stuff on that on that C++ team.
Aleph Aleph zero as well.
And Aleph one.
So Aleph one being the GUI

SPEAKER_00:
miner um and then i know how would you describe alice zero kind of the first interface to the blockchain in some way like the first graphical interface to a blockchain client
And what could it do?
Of course, it could mine.
You could deploy a smart contract.
You could visit, make it visible somewhat what's happening there.
It was not really end user friendly in any way, but it was just a replacement of what people just do on the command line.
Usually command line when your client has some input, has some output.
And it was the first kind of graphical user interface, graphical user interface replacing the command line.

SPEAKER_02:
I guess it's sort of like a combination of.
like what you have with the block explorer now apart from it that's that's like a view only and this was both a view and a and a do um yeah
But yeah, those GUI clients.

SPEAKER_00:
But much more influential than the MIS browser.
The MIS browser, I think there's a video by Alex van der Sander.
It's like a 10-minute video on YouTube.
They had this prototype.
They're not working yet, but just take it until you make it.
The vision of the MIS browser.
And this also really made us understand how Ethereum could work for the end user.
Having different identities connected to wallets, and you would load those steps.
Is it an IPFS hash or...
even over swarm one day the app was loading and you could do some finance stuff there this gave us an idea of what ethereum could be it was so you have to think vitalik gave us a rather technical vision and fraud intellectual thing but gavin gave us his pros internet vision alexander alexander gave us this very concrete thing what an end user could do with that in the next six to 12 months maybe it's very important

SPEAKER_02:
Just yesterday, actually.
So there was an announcement from Uniswap about them sort of turning on fees and doing various things that are more kind of to do with, you know, the company and the protocol tying together.
And I saw a reaction to that saying, you know, well, I'm never going to, you know, I'm never going to use this again.
You know, you can't like...
know extract ongoing revenue out of a protocol and and this person then said um it's time for mist too totally we need the full vision so that you've got hosted and the apps and you don't need a server and you don't need a company and you can just make this pure uh you know immutable smart contract wrapped in a ui that's that's all decentralized
You think we could have a myth too?

SPEAKER_00:
I would love to see this.
I heard people thinking about this before.
I don't know if anybody really started the project, but...

SPEAKER_01:
should be totally doable today it's not rocket science you know um let me interject we ourselves have made sort of different attempts at this where like you just download the app from the chain itself pretty much um it worked fine and i guess it just wasn't as much a differentiator like it made things a little slower uh uh to to do it this way all the time
I also think like one of the people that took the Web3, the world computer vision sort of seriously was like the internet computer people.
And I don't know anyone that uses internet computer, but like every once in a while I see tweets about it and I'm like, that sounds great.
Yeah, start the app from the chain.
You know, it's got some cool like smart contracting language in it.

UNKNOWN:
Yeah.

SPEAKER_01:
i guess there's just no demand if it like slows the app down even slightly um and i think metamask and then many other wallets were sort of enough still not um the whole thing but but yeah i guess it's like you got to get people to use it if you want it to be maximally cypherpunk too i fully agree and i mean yeah

SPEAKER_00:
The problem with this is you only need it if you really need it.
Meaning if Uniswap failed, the interface is not there.
It's like a backup.
It's not what you want to use daily.
And if you remember, let me cure you, when they presented MetaMask.
my first thought was oh this is totally away from the vision like how can you not run a full node how can you dare you like to just serve over rpc with infura like almost not a scam but it was like not what we intended to build today it's like this is decentralized version of it this is like non-castor the metamask or the good guys
compared to all the others.
Like, see how, like, the view shifted over the years.
Like, then it was absolutely required to run a full node if they missed browser.
This is how it's done.
And now we have MetaMask plus Infora.
And today, this is really the version which is viewed as the original non-custodial Ethereum vision.
how things are shifting, basically.
But yes, you only need those things if things are falling apart.
Just as an example, so many people use the Gnosis Safe.
Let's say the Gnosis Safe UI is gone.
Technically, it shouldn't be a problem to run another one, but I really need to be something on IPFS.
I need to be something which can self-host so I can still access my wallet without going to the command line.
So for those reasons, you need it.
And the mispronunciation was sort of as the fallback for every dApp.
Like, of course, you can have your application run on a normal .com domain on AWS, fine.
But if you could serve the same app in a decentralized fashion as a backup, this would be great because you could still use it if the company hits a Uniswap, the company fails.
If someone builds a nice Uniswap UI served by IPFS, directly interacting with the smart contracts.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, that's fair.
Also, Uniswap, I think, is controversial.
I know Jim wanted to say something.
Controversial because they had the company-level fee skim, and then I think they've turned the on-chain fee on.
I don't know that they've turned the company fee off.
I haven't read that for detail.

SPEAKER_02:
I believe so, because one of the replies was saying, okay, so how are your shareholders going to like that?

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, okay, fair enough.
Well, hopefully they hold a bunch of the uni and it will mark the market.

SPEAKER_02:
They're doing a bunch of burn, so that should be to the benefit of all stakeholders.
But yeah, just sort of this interesting kind of contrast, right, between...
completely immutable you know force of nature smart contracts versus you know more permission more tied to a company more sort of like wanting to have fees for maintenance kind of question
I mean, it's like treasuries, I guess.

SPEAKER_00:
But this opens up the questions.
How should the Ethereum app be built economically?
And this is also a question being answered during that time.
This was being the DAO was one approach of it should be fully on chain.
All the revenue should be on chain.
It should be no for profit entity directly attached to it.
And Slockit, the company I built after that, would be a service provider for them, getting paid by them for work being done for the DAO, one version.
I was always skeptical and still am about companies where you have effectively two cap tables, meaning you have a token cap table if you want.
Of course, it's a utility token, governance token, and so on.
But effectively, it's kind of ownership in the protocol.
And then you have a for-profit company with shareholders.
And this is always, I think, very dangerous because you don't know where to go into.
Where's the value?
On the shares of the company or on the token?
This was the main reason all those companies had those nonprofit foundations in Switzerland.
Rightfully so, because they said, you only want to have one cap table, like the Ethereum Foundation.
There was no shareholders of Ethereum.
There was a nonprofit foundation and a token.
The token, if you want to have a share in the economic success of the protocol, you would buy Ether.
and so later on there were many other token projects where they had a non-profit foundation so no shareholders no second cap table and then you would have only the token and all the value would be there and now with uni swap you have this problem of having again shareholders and tokens and i think that's dangerous and not a good idea actually

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah, yeah.
So perhaps let's talk about DevCon, actually, just before we get to DevCon 1.
So the launch.

SPEAKER_00:
Right.

SPEAKER_02:
So obviously, a lot of testing and coordination and this different series of proof of concepts.
So I mean, how did you know it was good enough?
Like, what was that testing flow and collaboration like?

SPEAKER_00:
there are many indicators one being the olympic test that running smoothly for a while other one where ssa declined having an audit which worked um and then they were saying okay now if christoph doesn't find any failing tasks for like three weeks or four weeks or something we are ready and this was the case and so we said that we can set a launch date
in the launch itself it's also a bit typically typically gavin or also vitalik nobody wanted to push a button like nobody just like start the chain so what was done was there was a script written which has as an input parameter the hash of the olympic test net at a certain block height so everybody could using this script plus the software plus c++ for go client of course
having plus the hash, which was at that time in the future of the Olympic test, let's start that chain.
So there was no, at launch day, we were just viewing it.
There was nothing to be done.
It was like, everything was, all the information was out there.
People were just simultaneously starting the blockchain.
And then over the peer to peer network, this was actually the more harder stuff.
They found themselves on Reddit and others to share IP addresses, like connect to my peer, connect to my peer.
and so then they started to come together and of course the longest chain was a valid one so as soon as you found a pier which had their own chain you would say yes this is a longer one you would stop and start mining on top of his chain and so basically the canonical chain emerged from that within i don't know 30 minutes or one hour and then we had the chain running and this was
uh like a beauty to behold like to just see how this works out as intended completely decentralized nobody did that do anything it's just i was in the z plus plus berlin office in kreuzberg 37a
with a nice office, and we just watched it.
And we were somewhere mining there with the laptop.
And we were all excited as it started.
I actually think two or three weeks after, or maybe four, we had the first little hard fork, meaning there was some smart contract doing something that gas and C++ had a different result.
It was, for me, almost the middle of the night at 10 PM or 11 PM.
So I remember seeing this, looking for one hour or so, finding what's the issue.
Then I found it, wrote a test about it.
Peter's bus was right.
Guess what's wrong.
So we gave it to Jeff.
They fixed this.
I think we said one hour and like after five hours, everything was done.
It's a basic call that the miners please update your client.
Um, so, and then it was fine.
So this was the early days, but it was a successful launch.

SPEAKER_02:
Nevertheless, did the Haskell clients sink at Genesis?
I do not know Jim.

SPEAKER_04:
No, we were able to sync at Genesis time for like a year or so we were syncing.
But I remember like that week, Karen and I were like more interested in trying to get a minor in place.
So that was what that week looked like for us.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I was living in an apartment just south of Berkeley campus at this time.
And Jim had taken me to Fry's to build a machine a few months prior, like a build machine.
It had a good GPU in it.

SPEAKER_04:
Yeah, Fry's is dead now.

SPEAKER_01:
RIP.
So I was running a minor there, and we built a couple in Jim's garage.
It got very hot in Jim's garage, which was, you know, those things were consuming a fair bit of power.
Mine exploded after a few weeks.
It was actually just the power supply.
So I thought the whole machine was bricked, and Jim said, you know, I think everything but the power supply will be okay.
And it was the case that everything but the power supply was okay, but then I stopped mining.
And I think Jim would shut it.

SPEAKER_04:
We didn't even bother to buy cases at that time.

SPEAKER_01:
Right.
Yeah.

SPEAKER_04:
You may have had a case.
I had mine just sitting wires out.

UNKNOWN:
Yeah.
Yeah.
Indeed.

SPEAKER_01:
Sure.
At that time, we were always, you know, sort of, at least at that time, shorter handed people wise.
So it's catching up a little bit on the features, et cetera.
But it ran perfectly well.

SPEAKER_00:
There was always new features coming.
I remember, it was like we, one of the sweet memories during the pre-launch, sitting together with Gavin, Vitalik, Jeffrey, and me in one room at the C++ office, like the nice Gavin office.
He had this 80s style thing.
And we think, okay, what was wrong in our protocol?
Then they discussed the whiteboard changes.
Then the first day, okay, Christoph, you had a test for this protocol change.
Then we are, at the same time, we are coding it.
the okay you're done creating a test let's see if they all pass it if they all pass it it's like done you feature the directly new release and so this was done with all the other clients so they basically had to catch up it was like information update of the yellow paper here's a new test here's like a little etherpad description of what the new protocol looks like and then please update your clients but the yellow paper got me to a certain point

SPEAKER_04:
Sorry.
Yellow paper always got me to a certain point, but it was always behind the other clients.
So I would always find out that I was behind because I went in the morning and connected to the test net and I was no longer connecting or I was getting some state mismatch or something.
And then I'd have to go and dig through, usually the C++ client.
I think there was maybe one or two times where...
I can't remember why.
I think there was one or two things that went to geth first, but usually it was C++.
And I'd have to go digging through the newest code to find the changes and then bring them in.
And then a few weeks later, I'd see it in the yellow paper.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah.
yeah so unlike unlike what you have now we're leading into a hard fork you know you've got all that discussion and specking up front and like yeah applying the code into the clients but only enabled for a testnet and going through that dance and then ready to go yeah i mean at that point as you say it's it's kind of like done in those clients first and then back later

SPEAKER_04:
it looked like from where i was standing it looked like there was a lot of competition between the different clients and the developers there and and i think they sort of like took pride in having the new thing in as fast as possible and so that sort of led to an environment maybe where there was not not as much discussion it was like i'm gonna throw it in and then i get the bragging rights

SPEAKER_00:
There was always a fight between guests and C++ team about who's the best.
And Gavin was having a big ego.
And Jeff was more like, just give me the new spec.
I just code it.
But yeah, it was more or less this decision by the three of them.
I was basically not playing a very major role.
I was in the room and then writing a test for it.
But they discussed it.
After it was cleared, they just did it.
But it was pre-launch.
After launch, of course, this was different.

SPEAKER_02:
Saying about having...
Sorry, go on, Jeff.

SPEAKER_04:
Oh, I was just going to say, like, I know, like, a lot of the changes were just, like, some change in the EVM or pricing or something.
And so often it was, like, you know, I would, like, freak out in the morning when I wasn't working.
But then, like, by 11 o'clock or, you know, a.m., I had found, like, oh, I see, like, such and such opcode just doubled in price or something.
So I would just put that in.
But the big one was RLPX, which is essentially, like, a big SSL replacement.
And that one was like freaking me out for a couple of weeks.
I was like digging around, trying to find any information about that.
Eventually, I had to reverse engineer.
Maybe that was the one that was in Geth first.
I can't remember.
But I had to sit there and reverse engineer.
I had to run either C++ or Geth and then put lots of logging information in to see what in the world was happening and then print out all the stuff and then find the appropriate crypto libraries to mimic that.
What was the background on that and how it went in so quickly?

SPEAKER_00:
like there was nothing in the yellow paper about that at all and when that came in it was just a shock to me just do you know which time this came because i was focusing on the ethereum virtual machine at the time this was more like okay i know gavin i think was gavin doing some optimization he was always thinking about the long term so if something would be 10 more efficient you have to do this right i think um

SPEAKER_01:
i remember like there was a dev p2p live p2p website that was released about that time it still might have been after the giant change went in so i also we were working together regularly you know in the bay area at this time and i think
so jim did like 96 of the changeover but we had uh at the time like separate processes one was more like a client and more like a server we merged them later um and yeah it was like so there was a big document
one describing like how the dht for peer discovery would go in but then you needed like a way to identify the peers maybe and this system kind of gave them an identity with like a
know in in a ssl style like basically there was like a node cert in effect and then you had to like there were session keys and you know this this that and the other it was it took a long time to to implement that thing

SPEAKER_02:
um but yeah i think um maybe bob you would know that i think this was someone else wrote this big thing this might have been alex yeah it was a alex did did that um so saying about sort of documentation or whatever there was a wiki right it was an ethereum wiki and a number of things were documented only on the wiki um and i think these these kind of wire protocol pieces were were part of that
but yeah alex leverington was the first hire into that berlin office um and he primarily i mean he worked on a few different c++ things uh but the main thing he's known for is is dev dev p2p which was that that common underlying peter protocol though you already had lib p2p which is the transport for ipfs that already existed at the time so there was a bit of not invented here going on
Um, but, but yeah, he, uh, he was there for, for DEF CON zero as well.

SPEAKER_00:
And he spoke on remember Alex.
I was not too much into the peer to peer side of the code base.
I was more into the EVM and solidity, small contract side.

SPEAKER_02:
I tell you what, there was a bit of funny crossover with the later part of, uh, of, of yours was Alex Leverington, uh, worked with.
John Gerrits on a project called Airlock.

SPEAKER_00:
so remember that i saw it later like after we did our presentation and had the slug and stuff going they showed us videos of very earlier than us so yes they were actually time wise they did this before we did but i did not know about it at all and so we did it more or less in parallel then and we just launched a bit quicker like to go to the public with the project it has been from their side was more like a little diet project it looked like a big company or intended to be

SPEAKER_02:
yeah i remember this project yeah so i think that was that was at the hackathon at the bitcoin expo in uh april uh 2014 that that that they uh did that and stefan actually did an interview with them you can see that on youtube you know this is like talking about early ethereum projects
know and this is like a over a year before the main net it's like so far back some of these um but uh but yeah like some of that spec stuff was it was not in the yellow paper and it was just sort of floating around and a long time before there was real consolidation of that full client spec but you managed to do it anyway jim you managed to build the client

SPEAKER_04:
It was a busy week.
But it was just notable to me because at least from what I was seeing, it went from zero to one overnight.
I had never heard of it the night before, and then the next morning it was in the clients and working, and I couldn't connect to anything.

SPEAKER_01:
Which is normally the pattern, but yeah, just this one was like the biggest one-time change that I can recall either.

SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah.
Again, this was pre-launch days.
Things had to move fast.
There was a lot of pressure going around.
It was messy.
There was not much coordination between the clients, except for maybe some scrap groups.
And in the end, yes, we tell you, Gavin and Jeff just made decisions and executed as quick as they could.
so this all changed after launch then things became a bit slowed down and people consolidated and every change was a big thing rightfully so um yeah

SPEAKER_02:
yeah so back on the timeline um so it was july 2015 uh that mainnet launched uh with a frontier hard fork um and then as you touched on um you had ming so ming's first official day was the first of august uh 2015.
at which point the foundation had been running on for a year or so and was close to out of money.
Touching on your thinking it would only last for a certain amount of time, a year on, that raise, which I think was around $16 or perhaps $18 million, was nearly all gone.
So you have these quite hard decisions about what...

SPEAKER_00:
which part of this grand vision was was going to be funded initially right and i remember talking to her at the time she felt like i have to clean up the whole mess like the paperwork and everything was totally messy working with lawyers accountants and so on and getting clean up basically of the foundation i mean for me i did expect it to last something like that so it was for me it was clear they are not making any money
um i didn't know like how big the reserve was the detail i think was like i don't know five percent something in this range like how much east of the foundation hall at the time there wasn't that much value either price like 50 cents one euro or something so it was clear this would not last forever so i was thinking about going back to my phd or then i came across this idea about slocket and becoming at building a company and slocket was the idea of maybe similar to airlock
Smart contracts are essentially permission systems.
90% of a smart contract is who's allowed to do what.
In case of the ERC-20, it's just who's allowed to send the token or setting an allowance.
And in terms of the DAO, it's who can vote for what and making decisions and then money gets censored.
So what if we could put this permission system into IoT?
And who's allowed to switch on, off, use, change, admin rights, whatever.
You put this into a small contract.
And I thought that Ether will never become a currency.
Bitcoin was a digital currency.
And actually, if you talk to Ethereum people at the time, we were not thinking about competing with Bitcoin.
Bitcoin was a digital currency.
We were building a platform for decentralized applications.
Ether was just used to run it.
I once heard the statement somewhere on Twitter where everyone said,
um bitcoin is a currency which needs a blockchain to function and ethereum is a blockchain that needs a currency to function uh this is i think it's very true and so back i thought okay ethereum will not be used as a currency but it might be used as a currency for iot devices so instead of the internet of things building the economy of things
And this is kind of what drove us.
And then we wanted to build this universal sharing network as an application.
At the time, Uber and Airbnb just became big.
We thought, well, all those sharing economy services should run on-chain.
So let's build this called the universal sharing network.
And then we thought about how to start with something tangible.
And then we had this door lock.
Actually, it's here in the background.
If you see it, it's there.
i have this devcon one um physical smart lock which we connected to the ethereum blockchain using our own software and had this idea of people pay to open the lock and that's what we presented at defcon one
together with this idea which actually only came up like three or four days earlier to connect this with a dow and the rest you know history what happened after that but we didn't intend and we didn't start slog it for building it out we wanted to build universal share network then we thought well this is way too big for us we want to now focus on this airbnb use case for door locks
And then we thought about fundraising.
We talked to a bunch of VCs.
I actually remember flying to New York, talking to VCs there.
Everybody said no.
Then I met Joseph Lubin.
He said, yes, maybe under some conditions.
We just did not agree on the terms in detail at then.
But I was presented at the Bitcoin meetup in New York.
And they all like, the first application was a Bitcoin application about arbitrage trading.
It was like kind of boring.
And then I came with a door lock.
It was like super fascinating.
You could open the door by paying some Ether.
So it went well, but we didn't have any money.
So we thought about doing something like an ICO, but this was now after the launch of Ethereum.
So if I started coding an ICO-like smart contract, why should we have the money directly?
It could stay in the contract and then people could vote for giving us part of it.
that we said well we could make proposals to it and then they can vote if the proposal is good or not good or not then the money would be released to us then they think why could not everybody make a proposal like everybody could pay it everybody can make a proposal and though it's completely open and we are just one of many service providers to the dow building this universal sharing network and this was the origin of the dow and only like again three days before defcon one we actually decided we would go for it and put it into the presentation

SPEAKER_02:
yeah amazing i mean so on the timeline again trying to judge it so stefan was i guess chief communications officer or community um until september of 2015 that's when when he left had you had you left already by then can you remember

SPEAKER_00:
No, I didn't really leave because I was technically a freelancer, although I was working full time for it.
I didn't have like a formal employment contract.
So I was continuing to work, I think, until the end of the year.
And then I just talked, well, did you just put down my hours?
Basically, if you need me, tell me.
I just invoice what I'm doing.
But I was really leaving actually in December, January.
I think the last invoice was for December.
And when Stefan Tuol left or was being left, there's another conversation how he left the foundation.
He didn't agree with some people getting Ether, which is another story for another day, I guess.
But he was really a crucial part in building up this Ethereum community.
Like all this meetup culture.
The meetup culture didn't really exist like that before.
He was going from place to place, finding someone running meetups.
So he was very important for that.
And I know I was a coder.
I processed Simon, who I co-founded SlotQuiz, was also a coder.
We needed someone who can talk to the people, can do marketing and this stuff.
And we said, well, he has the right address book.
He knows the right people.
Everybody knows him in the community.
I think let's ask him if he wants to join us.
And he did.
And I think he was a very important part of making the DAO what it was.
Later on, he did some messages, which I also didn't like.
And so he was a bit in disgrace what happened then.
And I think the community was very, very hard with him because he was not always reacting maybe as he should in some situations after the hack.
But nevertheless, he played a very important part in the history of Ethereum and also, of course, of the DAO.

SPEAKER_02:
and and so so devcon was november 2015 so that was announced earlier in the year i think i think september-ish um but ended up being cancelled you know because the the foundation were basically you know this same making out money piece
uh but then primarily with consensus funding and support uh you know hey it's back on um so that was in that was in london um and you know significantly larger uh event obviously than the nevcon zero because it was the first
you know, public Ethereum outing with Microsoft as a headline sponsor.
You had Nick Szabo speaking as well.
Maybe Satoshi, maybe not Satoshi.
I don't think he said that.

SPEAKER_01:
He strongly alluded to it in the presentation.
It was funny.

SPEAKER_02:
So, yeah, how was that for you then, Christoph?
What was, you know...

SPEAKER_00:
It was totally different than EFKON Zero because this felt like now we're going out in the world and show it to the public.
It was a fancy space in London.
It was a really fancy, almost cathedral-looking space to 2%.
Again, we had Vitalik and Gavin talking about the vision of Ethereum.
And if you look at the talks being given...
I really think entrepreneurs today should just re-watch them because they all have been 10 years too early.
Be it about Uport building identity solution.
I think it was Boardroom doing that governance on chain.
Many, many consensus startups, of course.
We as Blockit think about, well, let's connect IoT to blockchain.
Again, all of that 10 years too early.
I remember also Simon...
speaking about not my brother, I forgot his last name, but Simon speaking about everybody getting a token.
He really predicted this token economy would now thrive, which happened.
So it was a great place to be.
Everybody was looking into the future, building the future.
It was very, very exciting.
It was very important that ConsenSys was funding this.
It was crucial, this DEF CON 1 moment showing Ethereum is live now.
We show you what we will build with it.
But still, there were no applications running.
It was all visions and thinking.
And so there's one reason why when we then did the DAO, the DAO was held like almost the first real thing you could do with Ethereum.
That's why so many people jumped onto it.
And then maybe just finishing this off, the narrative changed.
It was not anymore a DAO for the universal share network, but maybe because of the creators we choose, which were like...
important figures in the Ethereum space and many other things, it turned into like an investment fund or like an index fund for Ethereum applications.
Because now after 20, 30, 40 million was in, it was clear this was not just money for Zlockit and the USN.
This was money for more cases and more people applied for it.
It became like every...
these centers applications or many of them not everyone they're saying i'm applying for getting funding from the dow so the dow would pump all the applications so it's like you invested in a bitcoin 10 years five years ago became rich now you invest into ether went well and now you can invest in the application layer you do that through putting money into the dow this was not a story we told not how we intended it but that's how the narrative changed during the fundraising and then became that big

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah, I mean, it was interesting you saying that you did, but I cannot hear you.

SPEAKER_00:
Maybe it's maybe it's just me.
Can you hear me?
I mean, I am sorry.
I have an issue here with my.

SPEAKER_02:
Do you do?

SPEAKER_00:
This is me.
So now I'm back.

SPEAKER_02:
Can you hear me?
Can you hear me, Christoph?

SPEAKER_00:
no i have to switch back to um let's can you hear me now yeah i can hear you i could always hear you some reason oh we've heard you anymore this was like me an hour ago by the way stream yard okay my audio is completely broken so i will try to fix this we can continue

SPEAKER_04:
I basically had to close it and come back again with my earphones, but I don't know.

SPEAKER_02:
Perhaps while we're waiting, Kieran and Jim, you could talk a little bit about the Strato launch.

SPEAKER_04:
I thought you were going to say you could sing a little song.
I got nervous for a second there.

SPEAKER_01:
You know, OK, so in this period of time, we were just reconnect.

SPEAKER_00:
Just turn off and on again.

SPEAKER_01:
We were working as part of consensus and one of the kind of marketing business development people at the time, Andrew Keyes, primarily had put together a partnership with Microsoft.
I don't know if they ended up
co-sponsoring devcon one per se but their headline yeah they so they put money in for that because they also like uh paid for a bunch of pr and all those sort of things too um and so we had maybe a month or two lead time to work with them um and so the idea was that we
know they've got cloud infrastructure it's a good place to run blockchain nodes they also have corporate clients that were actually very interested in the technology and um so we worked with um
pretty closely with them in the run-up to make our software available on the Azure Cloud, as did Roman of the Java client, which to some extent was everyone's preference because people know Java in the enterprise world.
But I think they...
we sort of stuck with it quite a quite a bit longer than roman did and you know so blockchain as a service was the big announcement was this december 2015 there was november was it november it must have been december really november uh there was a once the announcement happened there's a little tick in the microsoft stock price which we are like whoa like there's a little little bump there um
And a lot of excitement for sure.
Got a million phone calls after that.
That was like a good feeling of being the hotness that only happens so many times in someone's life.
But tremendous interest on the back of the blockchain as a service announcement.
We did a live demo.
It was fun.
The internet gets in vogue to make fun of the UK these days on
X, etc.
The internet in the conference facility was not so good.
So I was very worried about the transactions actually going through.
But they did during the live demo.
I think there's footage of it somewhere.

SPEAKER_02:
Can you hear us again now, Christoph?

SPEAKER_00:
Yes, I can hear you.
I hope you can hear me too.

SPEAKER_02:
Okay.
So the demo that you did at DEF CON 1, again, another iconic event.
um because yeah you you have that physical smart lock just sitting there on your on your shelf and you know it rotates it right you know right you did your transaction

SPEAKER_00:
We just had a Raspberry Pi connected via, I think it was ZigBee or Z-Wave back then, to the door lock.
And on the Raspberry Pi, we had actually an Ethereum client running.
And we had a smart contract on-chain where you could send some money to it, or Ether actually, and when it received some Ether, it would open up.
This was basically the demo.
But it was cool to see something physical.
um using ethereum for as i said before the economy of things uh connected to iot devices since most of the people in the room are still nerds and devs they love that kind of stuff

SPEAKER_02:
And there was also the kettle, wasn't there?

SPEAKER_00:
Yes, there was also a kettle.
Maybe just turned a smart plug, like a power plug.
We could also turn it on and off.
Same protocol, same thing.
So we just want to show it's not just the door lock company, because actually we're not producing those.
We're just connecting existing door locks to it.
We want to show this idea of the universal sharing network.
Everything which you can turn on, off, or lock up and unlock could be now connected to this network.
And everybody could...
it put almost everything in there like a washing machine you pay for using the washing machine or a bicycle lock we even had padlocks connected to it so you could have like your locker room and you have a padlock in front of it and sell whatever's in there by having someone pay to open the padlock this was the generic idea i mean we got some dc money later after the like in 2017
We built it.
Nobody used it.
Not just too early.
It was like everything for everyone all at once.
And of course, nothing for no one.
It felt like the app was not great.
So we failed B2C-wise.
At Slockit, we then turned into more consulting projects.
We built Incube, which was an IoT client.
Made some money with that.
Had about 50 people actually employed at the time.
In 2019, we sold the company to Blockchains Inc. Jeffrey Burns.
Another story.

SPEAKER_02:
um so i i remember speaking speaking to stefan at the time so stefan was involved with that demo right it was stefan who came up on stage to make his little cup of tea with the with the with the kettle there but i remember speaking to him
that he'd been concerned about what the reception for him would be like, you know, having had this, you know, passing of ways with the foundation just two months before.
But he was saying it was all very it was all very friendly and people, you know, very excited about the project.

SPEAKER_00:
Right.

SPEAKER_02:
And saying actually about that IoT and pieces.
So in January 2015, you had a demo that happened at the Consumer Electronics Show, CES in Vegas, which was a collaboration between IBM and Samsung.
So the aforementioned Henning Diedrich, part of that.
And that...
that again was months before mainnet but you had a proto web 3 stack there which was i think poc5 of ethereum you didn't have whisper you had another thing called telehash and you didn't have you had bit torrent so there was this proto web 3 stack there and they had demos like a washing machine um
buying its own detergent and scheduling its own repair so uh so yeah that that was happening a little earlier and uh and yes i mean

SPEAKER_00:
so flockit itself did a number of these different products right there was something with electrical charging and something to do with toll roads is that right right we had a prototype running with rwe or energy in germany they're doing like all the a lot at a time most of the charging stations so this was in general
We got a lot of attention, of course, also after the DAO hack and all of that.
And so that's kind of why we became a consulting company, because so many asked us, could we do a prototype with you?
Because there were not many Ethereum builders at the time.
So we have been building on Ethereum now since one year or two years.
which you could not find anybody doing this.
So we are building lots of nice prototypes and some almost production stuff and always related to IoT devices connected to the blockchain.
This was a core business.
And on top of this, we built those prototypes.
We did a lot of work for the Energy Web Foundation.
I don't know if you're familiar with them.
This was in Switzerland.
They are kind of a fork of Ethereum focusing on all the energy use cases.
We built most of their stuff in 2018, beginning of 19.
until they hired their own developers.
And Gavin was also part of this a while.
So, yes, this was still, I mean, if you remember this time of Kirin, you say there was so much enterprise interest.
Enterprise at the time were just learning, looking into this, wanted to build prototypes, not yet production stuff.
um so and there was a huge demand for it for blockchain experts for doing consulting for going to conferences explain them what a blockchain is with at every tech conference you need some blockchain talk and this was kept basically mostly us and they paid sometimes like 4 000 euro for a talk like as a company you said well we need the money let's go there so
we of course you also have to think about us as persons diamonds and me we didn't get any money for almost a year like we worked for we were not rich people which come from ordinary families and we said well we can work for like three to four months without a salary let's like build the dow and then we the house becomes big the dow is paying slugger to build it and of course after the hack it was clear there will never ever be a payment
So we made zero money out of the DAO.
So we needed to start doing some work.
And this was in the beginning.
Let's do consulting for those large companies.
This is how Slockit began to survive.
Many people said, you can bury Slockit after what happened.
Your name is burned forever.
And we decided to stay as a team.
I mean, as a founder team, we own our mistakes.
Maybe we are open and transparent about it as much as we could.
It was, of course, an honest mistake.
We can talk for it.
It could be another session just for the DAO.
I mean, the DAO is a lot of topics.
I just put here very shortly, just talking about it from a company perspective.
And then Stefan, he was saying, well, he was trying to get VC money.
Simon and I, we were doing those consulting gigs.
And once we had VC money, what happened as a company was we got 2 million euros of dollars.
And then we built the product, hired people for that, got more and more consulting gigs.
So we always said, well, let's do them and just hire more people.
And in the end, we had like 50 people, 5 or 10 doing the product and 40 people doing...
consulting and then we got bought by Jeff Burns from Blockchains Inc.
Remember maybe at DEFCON 3, I think.
Four.
Four in Prague, right?
Want to build a city.
I think I love the vision.
He obviously had money.
He wanted to build it on top of Ethereum mainnet.
I was thinking about how maybe I can channel those billions into the right direction.
Building is all as intended on Ethereum mainnet, which was working fine for the beginning and then...
I found out once you're an entrepreneur, you never can be an employee again.
And so I had to leave.
But maybe actually it's too far in the future.
I mean, that's one thing I think I have to say here, because you talked about DEF CON 1 and we skipped a little bit DEF CON 2.
You said in DEF CON 1, Stefan Troll was very concerned how people perceived him.
And they were very gentle, forgiving, and nice to him.
So he was well-received, and then he built the DAO community.
I was super worried to go to DEF CON 2 because this was after the DAO hack.
I was like seriously thinking someone might beat me up there.
I went to the corner and I almost destroyed Ethereum with the spark and so much attention to it and all the money lost for some people or the time of growth gone.
It depends on how you view it.
So, but when I went to DEF CON too, people were so nice for giving, basically hugging me when I was giving the talk there.
And the only thing I didn't like was the foundation telling me I was not allowed to speak about the DAO, which was like, I am speaking here to the Ethereum community.
Well, how can I not speak about the DAO?
And so I talked about...
pretty boring talk about security.
And I think every second talk was about security at DEF CON 2.
It was just about how we get those smart contracts secure.
So I gave a rather boring talk.
But in the end, I just said, well, thank you for your understanding.
And it was a hard time and so on.
And they were like, some of the standing ovations, I remember becoming emotional because this was, I did not expect this.
I really expected like, guy, you messed up Ethereum.
Like, we almost lost it all.
So...
think this just speaks to the ethereum community how they treated stefan how they treated me even though mistakes were made honest mistakes at least from what i can tell uh so this is such a great community of really nice people who really want to change the world capable and also now financially capable of really doing things i was watching that video quite recently actually um and and yeah it was quite cut off a little bit in the end the end is

SPEAKER_02:
You know, it was quite a long ovation there.
And yeah, you could certainly see that emotion in you.
And that's when we first met, actually, was in Shanghai for DevCon 2, I remember.
Was on the sidelines there in that main conference hall.
And yeah, it was lovely to see that.
That's for sure.
Okay.

SPEAKER_01:
yeah i think good notes just bob you you were the one who tried to impose uh hour to half half hour to hour rule we're at a solid 120 right here the other time maybe with me you know we've reached a you know a good kind of end point i guess so what what happened after blockchains llc for you then

SPEAKER_00:
So because of time, I keep it short.
So yes, we got bought by Jeffy Burns, blockchain LLC at the time.
Again, the reason for this being he wanted to build a new city in the desert.
He wanted to do all on IoT, all on Ethereum from scratch as a developer dream, building from scratch on a green field on top of Ethereum with our tech.
and i felt comfortable the beginning in the end i felt like we need to release stuff and there were some voices of the company which didn't want to release until like a very very big product was done for many reasons that didn't happen i don't want to get into like that too much so after two years i left um blockchains back then it was called inc they made a change in their name
And I did for six months, I did really nothing.
I forced myself to do nothing, which was great after so much stressful years.
And then I started a venture studio called Corpus Ventures, where we tried out many different ideas.
We had EM3, which was a decentralized messaging protocol, GasHawk, you can save transaction costs on Ethereum.
What else did we have?
so with some domain name stuff but we didn't get we didn't release it at the end but the biggest one was tokenize it and this was we being we built something for german for now german startups in the end we want to do it all over europe we're just tokenizing their shares and do fundraising so
In summary, it's like a Web3-based angel list for Europe.
It's the one sentence description for Americans also to understand.
Angel list, it's a great tool for business angel investing.
We want to do the same for Europe, for all countries there, and build it on chain.
So tokenizing all those shares and enable private as well as public fundraising.
So some called legal ICOs, if you want, but also for private fundraising.
Our customers currently...
You have more than, maybe a good way to end this.
You have now more than 400 investments from more than 320 business angels and more than 50 companies.
Those are traditional German GmbHs raising from super conservative business angels, doing it completely on chain.
They are paying in stable coins, getting their tokenized shares in their non-custodial wallet.
They're all getting a Gnosis Safe wallet from us.
using preview for login.
So we build it as intended and we get normal people to use it.
For me, this is kind of a dream come true because I'm out of, I love the Web3 bubble.
I love this community.
I love to work inside there.
But for me, tokenize is a way to make this technology available where it belongs, like to startups and investors outside of our Web3 bubble.
And I'm super, super happy.
that could keep up those values that they have.
Complete platform is non-custodial.
They have their safe on Ethereum, holding their tokens, paying stable coins.
So I'm very happy to see this.
Over the next years, we want to basically roll out this all over Europe and become, yes, the Web3-based angel list for Europe.
That's the goal.

SPEAKER_02:
Fantastic.
So hope to see you at DEF CON 8.

SPEAKER_00:
Me too.
I'm looking forward to it.
As of now, I don't intend any change.
Stick to Ethereum.
I love the community.
I continue building and try to get a lot of people using it.

SPEAKER_02:
Have you been to every DevCon?

SPEAKER_00:
Yes.
Yes, I said yes.
I've been to every DEF CON.
The last one was actually the first one that I didn't give a talk.
And I also went to every ECC except of one that was COVID.
There was some reason I couldn't come.
But yes, I'm actually, I intend to continue to come to every DEF CON.
It's like you meet the people like Griff Green, Lev Karras,
of course, Vitalik, and many others.
It's just a sweet spirit there.
Nice community.
Love seeing how it all grows.
Listen to those exciting talks.
I mean, for tokenizers, it's not as relevant.
It's not like our customers or the tech, of course.
We're just doing an ERC-20 token on Ethereum.
It's super easy.
It's no deep tech.
Sometimes I miss doing deep tech, but, well, I just enjoy being there, seeing what all happened, and remembering those magic days.
And it's like only once in a lifetime or two times in a lifetime you have this
this moment where everything comes together, the right time, the right place, the right people.
This certainly, where those one and a half years I worked for Ethereum, are definitely the prime of my career in terms of who I worked with, what we accomplished, the impact we had on the world, and the sweet cyberpunk spirit there and what we did there.
It was really great.
I always sometimes get emotional thinking about this and meeting those people again at DEF CON.

SPEAKER_02:
Fantastic.
Well, thank you for all your contributions to that success.

SPEAKER_00:
Likewise.

SPEAKER_02:
All the best.
Okay.
Oh, just one more.
Where can we find you?

SPEAKER_00:
You can find me usually on Twitter for the Ethereum people, C-H-R-Y-E-N-G. Of course, I have a complicated name, not many vocals in there, but you find it.
Or, of course, on LinkedIn.
Actually, for my company, I'm more active on LinkedIn, which I was never before, but that's where we get our clients and tokenize it.
Yeah, but usually you can find me on Twitter or follow me there on LinkedIn.

SPEAKER_02:
Excellent.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Have a great day.
Thank you.

SPEAKER_00:
You too.
It was great talking to you.
Bye.
