**SPEAKER_04:**
All righty, so we're on.
Thanks.
So my name is Karen James Lubin.
I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong.
We are old friends.
We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today.
We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days.
So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space.
And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened
And so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity.
And here we are.
So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational.
This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts.
I've been on a bunch of them.
I don't think I've ever led one.
So we're going to find out how it goes.
All righty.
So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular?
I'll give my answer to start.
And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it.
So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011.
So this would have been my senior year in undergrad.
of Bitcoin and I distinctly remember it being three dollars down from a recent peak of 14 or 15 dollars I thought it was interesting and you know looked into it a little bit I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution you know I'd
If you asked me then, I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing.
And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**SPEAKER_01:**
That said let me hand the question over to jim when were you first aware of bitcoin aware is different than like interested in fact like i i don't know i was like i came from an academic background so i'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it but but i was like a little bit too above all that like oh that's like a money thing i'm not interested in that money world
so uh uh really no like the interest came from when you reached out to steve who was a uh an old friend of mine and that uh um kieran had been following his blog and and uh steve called me up and he's like uh this guy kieran just called me up and you you have to go look at this ethereum thing and so uh at first i was like uh yeah you know i'm not interested in all this this uh uh fake money thing and i went and i read the white paper
And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in.
I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something.
This is about incentivization on the internet.
And that drew me in.
And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed.
I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked.
So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

**SPEAKER_04:**
uh and uh and that's when i started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there so well i don't know let me pass it on to victor yeah let's uh jim will pick that up i'm trying a little bit stay chronological so i you know i was 2010 2011 sounds like same time frame for you i think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era um and we'll talk in in more detail uh but let's let's hold on it for just a moment uh vic do you want to take it

**SPEAKER_00:**
yeah i think i became aware of it um around the same time as you i was i was um you know doing one of my startups in beijing at the time and i i felt really disconnected from north america so i became sort of an early fan of podcasts and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called twit that was like all technical podcasts and one of the podcasts i really loved was this podcast security now which
went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things and he did like a couple episodes of bitcoin and i was like you know really really fascinated by it but mostly from a technical angle like and even to the point where i downloaded the bitcoin client and ran it didn't get any bitcoin or if i did uh
I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this.
But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office.
And I was like, what are those for?
And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin.
And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin?
And they're like, oh, well, we can
transfer money and like it's basically free internet magic money and I was like I I honestly was kind of repelled by that like that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time did we all hate it before we liked it

**SPEAKER_04:**
I never hated it I was sort of just like not that interested I guess um you know from the East Coast um the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like

**SPEAKER_01:**
yeah you know after your physics days you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like like I guess I didn't hate it I just felt I was too good for it but I think I found the like

**SPEAKER_00:**
like everyone talked about so I was fascinated the technical aspect like I said like you know and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software but I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs they're like they were like kind of fanatical like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off I would say

**SPEAKER_04:**
Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored.
Crypto.
Some of them weighed in on it.
But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time.
Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something.
It's just like.
the most horsepower wins from a you know intellectual perspective and I guess the hardest working horsepower very few of those people got interested um and in uh you know crypto blockchain a few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones um as far as uh you know compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Bonet etc but yeah I think
I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was
sketchy because most of the use cases that like I thought the technology was fascinating but whenever I would ask about you know I'm a product guy so I would always ask like what's the use case why would you use it and people would describe you know things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in China that I remember is like oh I can transfer money and bypass you know foreign exchange rules and stuff and I was like is that legal like no one would you know

**SPEAKER_01:**
got over feeling uh too good for it i'll tell you that yeah and we all did yeah

**SPEAKER_04:**
I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt.
Gox.
So Mt.
Gox was that first big price run up.
I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe.
And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person.
To some extent, consumer interest tracks with the price.
And people are getting excited about price momentum.
Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing.
More people come in and it goes all the way up.
And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know.
And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side.
And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this.
The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound.
But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt.
Gox distinctly?
I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not...
quite crypto savvy in the industry etc were suddenly paying attention when Mt.

**SPEAKER_01:**
Gox was happening just getting into things I I what year was it was it 2015 2014 2014 probably right I think Docs was 13. let me check yeah okay 13. yeah okay so that was a little before but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time um
uh i was new enough to it that it was still i was observing it as a you know like a third party you know it was it was interesting to me but but yeah i think i i spent a little time to understand what because you know the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it they didn't explain what was going on so i spent a little time to understand that yes there was a problem but no it had nothing to do with blockchain it was uh it was oh there's

**SPEAKER_04:**
I think you're right so the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14 it looks like okay so it officially shuttered February 2014. though and the big the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013 it looks like when did the hack happen December oh I think right here okay okay yeah right there yeah

**SPEAKER_03:**
So, yeah, interesting times for sure.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Because I think about Mt.
Gox and, oh, what was...
I'm blank right now.
What was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used...

**SPEAKER_03:**
Silk Road.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Silk Road, yeah.
Like, I think it's...
those were kind of intertwined in those early days right so I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about and I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there like you know lots of illicit stuff was a list listed there you know

**SPEAKER_04:**
that's wow you know I think I never did that I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road um just heard about it at like I had a mount gox account um and some others there was a period where like uh dwala was doing crypto stuff um and then I think they stopped um and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company um but um yeah because I really use them and some others

**SPEAKER_00:**
I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt.
Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other and that was like the sort of like you know as we've as you mentioned like the first kind of iteration of like oh you know all crypto and blockchain is dead now and then it just keeps coming back right

**SPEAKER_01:**
yeah it sure does um okay there's a little bit of bias in the new the news on how they cover um problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional uh world like if there's if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place and if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking that means that like it might mean that there we need a little more regulation or something but that that was a bad person
so it's always like uh much more tied into you know that the price of of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens but you don't see like e crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere I mean I guess fraud's big enough but yeah I agreed um just a segue yeah

**SPEAKER_04:**
John Coleman, SIG way and quickly.
Can you guys go into how you met?
Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all do.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Do I do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**SPEAKER_01:**
uh I'll start and and I'll pass it over I uh actually so I had uh uh back in the 90s I was an academia and in the aughts I was in the startup world and I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups and I had uh two sons who were in the our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school
And at this time, there was just a coincidence.
Both my wife and I had ended jobs.
And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now.
And let's take this to its extension.
Let's go to China.
and actually put them in a school there so I called around some various friends and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing and he says I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys so in fact let me pass it over to you right now and you can

**SPEAKER_00:**
well yeah and and so the VC um you know who we're still friends with her G like he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said like oh I have this brilliant CTO and he says he wants to come to China I'm not sure how serious he is so you know don't put all your eggs in this basket but then we started
talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country so you were like in a different place every another advantage of us both uh uh being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country and and I remember like
You know, like we were kind of talking over the summer and I was like, you know, seeing how serious you were about coming.
And and at one point you said, OK, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing.
and i went to the school that my kids went to which and said like you know can you make space for um you know two foreign kids this inter international program they said yes if you can but the kids have to be here the first day of school and first day of school was two weeks from that conversation so i called him up and said look i can do it

**SPEAKER_01:**
you know I can guarantee a place for them but you have to be here on this day and to my shock he actually said yes and he like talked to his house and like everything in the house in like I think we had 12 days to be in school and we probably were had the had to have the house back within like like I don't know less than a week so that was a crazy week
but but uh Victor was a great help in like we were going to a country we'd never been to before didn't know much about Victor had also uh moved to Asia a few years earlier and so he had sort of scoped out everything and he knew he knew where the good schools were he knew where the good apartment buildings were helped us out just tremendously so yeah it was a great experience it was an exciting time to be in China was right around the first Olympics you know

**SPEAKER_00:**
like it was right around that the beijing olympics and so it's a really exciting time but yeah you wound up saying for about 18 months right in total and um a little less but yeah it was it was over a year yeah and then we just kept in touch from there like we loved working together yeah it was great what year did you arrive um what was this rough time yeah who are you asking because it was different uh you jim

**SPEAKER_01:**
oh 2011 2011 summer we're driving all over the country 2011 September August I can't remember we were we were in Beijing gotcha gotcha very cool and so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013 something like that yeah we were back at um when did we come back I guess we were back in the country in 2013. but like January

**SPEAKER_04:**
Let me, I'll segue, I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent.
So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015.
I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident.
Maybe not purely by accident, but basically the...
I had passed my qualifying exam, I'm going to say spring 2014 or, you know, maybe May, April or May 2014.
So for those who have not aware of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis.
So sometimes it's a coursework requirement.
Sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from like an academic work from one language to to another to show proficiency.
I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point.
And so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study tense prep at Berkeley.
It's a three hour oral exam with a couple of people from your department and one from an external department.
And then they give you a pass or not.
I got a pass.
Thankfully, it was a.
I don't know that it was it was everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good right like and you know so while I passed it I it was like you know didn't feel great the at least the rest of that day um but when do you find out the result like immediately oh you do okay you put you in the hall and they tell you

**SPEAKER_01:**
yeah okay that's good so you're just like very nervous I don't know what it was like for you but for me it was just like three guys I knew and I I was nervous too but it wasn't like they had to go and like uh you know like calculate numbers or something they just kind of come out and they're like yeah yeah yeah exactly it was no it was like that right yeah it's it's a oral it's

**SPEAKER_04:**
subjective in a sense but you know there you've got like several of the world's foremost experts you know in some subjects so they're able to assess whether you understand it enough or not to proceed with research um so anyway so
The qualifying exam led to I needed a short break from math.
I was in mathematical physics.
And I had almost taken a job working for a data science company that was taking, I can't quite remember, something having to do with Nielsen TV ratings and doing something with the data and maybe selling it back to networks.
I can't remember at this time.
But it seemed like an okay thing.
I also wanted to go back to New York for the summer.
I'm from New York.
And as with many New Yorkers, it took some time to adapt to the California culture, and I didn't fully do it.
I'm prone sometimes to bash the Bay Area, but I still kind of like it there.
Yes, Jim's there.
I'm in the state of New York at the moment.
but but yeah but I you know I need a little break basically and it ended up um being possible to work on the ethereum project um so somehow um my you know I guess I'll go into this somehow uh my dad Joe Lubin got attached to the project basically because he was always he was tracking Bitcoin blockchain for a long time um he had a
CS background plus the financial background and ran a hedge fund for a number of years.
And so it's just kind of always watching technological innovations in financial services.
And I guess always had a little bit of the blockchain philosophical character in that, you know, let's say pro-freedom, a little bit of a libertarian streak kind of thing.
And I believe he happened to just be visiting our families.
He's from Toronto.
A lot of blockchain people in Toronto for one reason or another.
And he went, I believe, to it might have been a Bitcoin meetup at that time, or it might have been the first Ethereum meetup.
But this would have been January, February, 2014, I believe.
And Vitalik was speaking there.
And like everyone around that time where
You see Vitalik speak about something.
You got really excited, right?
And so he actually got ready to start helping out the project right away.
He actually thought for a time that he might be a software developer for the project.
And it didn't turn out that way.
We can go into it a little bit later.
But he started working on it again, let's say February, March.
um 2014 and so he just sent me the white paper like right after maybe right before my qualifying exam i got a chance to read it um and it was pretty cool and interesting and new and that was sort of the first time i grasped the potential of technology and it caused me to go back and read the bitcoin white paper etc and it was sort of exciting enough to work on for that summer basically so that's how i got into it um
And subsequently, Jim alluded to this earlier, I started to work with the project and reached out to Steve Hsu, a great friend of ours, kind of, I don't know, not quite famously brilliant, definitely brilliant, somewhat famous.
uh super cool guy uh and i've been a long time reader of steve's blog he's one of the um few really excellent uh kind of general communicators who's a super technical guy but most people who are really technical in communication have a hard time
I don't distilling it for at least kind of a mass market audience.
Uh, but Steve is actually good at that.
Uh, but with nuanced coverage of technical topics, so anyway, um, caught up with Steve, um, and that takes us to, um,
Steve forwarding on the Ethereum white paper to Jim.
And I believe the first time I spoke to Steve, I was in New York, but was just about to go back to the Bay Area.
So that takes us to maybe June, July 2014.
And maybe I came back in August or something like that.
And it turned out that Jim was there in Hayward and we got to meet up.

**SPEAKER_01:**
what do you really think August 2014 September something like that oh it was around then because uh um also ironically I was driving across the country that summer too and uh it was right after I came back that's all your big life changes are related to some cross country you do a soul searching you do a literal search well see I was in Montana and then I was back in the Bay Area and then we talked

**SPEAKER_04:**
yeah okay that's cool how was montana by the way wow maybe we shouldn't go yeah um montana oddly crypto friendly yeah yeah makes sense big sky country right yeah that's my country um okay so let me see here i want to um i have a couple other 2014 anecdotes that uh you guys may not even know that much about but maybe we should jump ahead

**SPEAKER_00:**
to 2015 and go back so just before we go past 2014. so I moved back from China um in 2014 and so you know me and Jim were talking about like oh now that we were I was back
what kind of project could we do together so while you had started that conversation me and Jim were like thinking about okay you know like maybe we could work on the startup together and at some point you forward me the paper as well so like I think once so that's that's kind of how I got into it as well um

**SPEAKER_04:**
I want to give, yeah, I don't want to speak the whole time, but I have some info here that I forget if I told you guys at length.
Okay, go for it.
In 2014, so basically, I did work on the Ethereum project through a bunch of 2014 projects.
As far as tech projects go, it was much more global, a little more European, but you had Canada, you had a bunch of people in Zug, Switzerland, a little bit in Israel in the early days.
We worked out of an office, my dad and I, and
Guy named Stephen Narayoff, who is now kind of famous.
Actually, if you Google the name, it's definitely an interesting and colorful story that I'll go into a little bit.
And a guy named Jonathan, whose last name I couldn't find when I was writing this down.
But Jonathan's a good guy.
And I don't know if they parted ways at some point or how that all happened.
So we're working in this office in
times Square and you know really trying to find kind of different ways to advance the project meeting with lots of people um so you know that's when I met um Steve shoe who introduced me to Jim basically just calling up whoever might be interested but part of the plans that the ethereum uh folks had was you know they had the they acknowledged that um
There would be a need for kind of ongoing pure research, and then, in addition to more like focused Rd.
To to build the network out.
And so Vitalik at some point pended article about you know 10 hard problems in cryptocurrency, or or something of that nature in which, and I think it was
If we went back now, it would look both very insightful and a little bit dated.
I'm sure some of them have been solved and some of them may not need to be solved because something else emerged.
basically foresaw that they the the need for you know uh privacy above and beyond pseudonymity for instance yeah or and you know many things with that transition from proof of work to mistake or just like energy efficient blockchains which people were talking about at that time but um
My position in academia at that time seemed to be helpful as the blockchain people were just so different from the academia people, despite both of them being really smart groups of people.
Blockchain people were not worried about doing things through the proper channels and approval and writing it up the right way and all that sort of thing.
Whereas something about academia makes you
fearful of being wrong um because you you're wrong enough in public there are kind of consequences for it uh and the kind of i would say the tech attitude in general is like getting something out there you know get it to work basically but get it out and then iterate um and
blockchain people had that you know in a extreme and I would say also ethereum was much more like that than the Bitcoin culture the Bitcoin culture was like a bunch of practicing but academic cryptographers who never wanted to change anything um and the ethereum people were more like
have like the software and computer science engineering attitude of like well let's get out there let's let's tinker with it let's kind of see what happens and it was good arguments for both especially when we're talking about like a system that custody's whatnot custody's but you know that records a lot of high value ownership interests and allows them to be transferred um
But all that is to say, it was useful for the Ethereum Foundation to have someone who was actively in academia to kind of work with and coordinate everything.
So we agreed to work on a body called the Cryptocurrency Research Group.
And that was composed of sort of myself, Vitalik, and our friend, Aaron Wright.
He's since gone on to a number of Web3 projects, but at the time was practicing
uh attorney uh but also a professor at Cardozo Law School um and he came to that Times Square office which was you know not the greatest of offices I would I would say and just sort of really leaned in on
um Ethereum and kind of helped structure everything uh so that you know it would be kind of the most robust um not just technology but they actually did kind of a quite good job in figuring out uh how to set things up uh that other projects since did you know certainly did not do as good a job I'll say so you know it was it was funny times um
And in 2014, I also got to go to Zug.
For those who don't know, the Ethereum Foundation was one of the first to be headquartered in Switzerland.
And it was kind of...
it's become a very popular choice for crypto foundations uh because i guess the ethereum foundation sort of blazed a path uh and okay funny thing about switzerland is that the kind of local authorities also just seem like business people like they want to land the future tax revenue and employment and so you can kind of
James Heiting.
Once Switzerland is split into some number of cantons, which are like States a little smaller than Us.
States, of course, and so you can go from Canton to Canton, and try to get the best offer, and offer really means like, you know, tax treatment.
any kind of grants or just like, you know, and helping get fast answers around legal questions.
You know, one of the tough things about the United States is that sometimes you don't know what's allowed.
And the Swiss environment, they were fairly clear, you know, about what they wanted for the special tax treatment and, you know, et cetera, et cetera.
So we went out and visited Zug
i don't know mid late summer 2014 and i got to meet um all of the founders of ethereum at that time i believe they're kind of eight in total um and
you know so I think uh those numbers changed over time though yeah those numbers change yes so well but but yeah I think so I don't exactly know how all of it happened but you know Vitalik there's always a global project right so Vitalik would kind of go around the world and evangelize get people excited and they would want to work with the project and so um a bunch of folks got attached to it um
And I think obviously it worked, right?
But if he were to do it again, I bet he would be a little bit more careful about adding folks to it.
Because eight is just like too many.
Like if you went to a US venture capitalist with a slide that says eight co-founders and they're not all currently running billion dollar companies, you'd be just laughed out of the room.
And yet, it works.
It actually functioned.
And the, you know, so kind of the way it broke apart was that there were like the technical element, technical guys.
So I think, I don't quite know how this happened, but pretty early on, like Gavin Wood, Jeff Wilkie started, um, building out versions of Ethereum, um, the C++ and Go clients specifically.
We'll go into the clients soon.
Cause there's good stories there.
Um,
David Price- It's Alec was building the Python client, they were all working together on technical documentation and the reason that people were building multiple clients was that there was the perception that bitcoin was controlled and centralized.
David Price- Because there's only really one definitive client bitcoin D.
right and so there was this kind of huge replication of technical effort like each of them eventually got their own teams there were javascript clients you know there's uh you know many of them kind of came out uh later
um and i'd say the project so the project had sort of tech folks and business folks like like any tech project didn't really have a nominal ceo at any time uh it was closest to being charles hoskinson so i think at the time i went to zug the um leadership looked like
On the business side, Charles is the CEO.
Amir Chetrit, who is in Israel, he kind of did business development.
He's a funny guy.
I still see him every once in a while.
Joe, my dad, and Anthony Diorio as the other business guys who probably had the most operating experience.
And then the tech side was Vitalik, Jeff, Gavin, and then Mihai had sort of done corporate setup.
I believe Mihai worked with Vitalik on Bitcoin Magazine.
So Vitalik
very interesting character where you know most of the time your technical geniuses are not good communicators uh and he was sort of a journalist running bitcoin magazine writing a lot of the articles good if he started it or kind of joined it um
uh and you know he would uh he would i think he kind of crowdfunded the articles a little bit like um for you know if i can get a pledge of one bitcoin i'll write an article about x you know and at the time of bitcoin was
inexpensive uh but you know those those values went up and i think it actually ended up being a good funding mechanism you know the articles he wrote in the future and it led him to kind of have a sort of impartial thought leader position in addition to his really strong technical ability and the ideas he was generating etc and i know he had joined a bunch of projects uh early on uh and helped work with them
um like i think master coin was maybe the first colored coin project he did some work on that so um anyway so those were the eight at the time and the there was a meeting for everyone to kind of get on the same page you know remote project there was a slack um people were
maybe working a little bit at cross purposes lots of infighting people are stressed they're trying to deliver on this like awesome concept that Vitalik put out there and then everyone kind of tried to grab ownership of like was there a reason to have all these different clients you know in the end empirically it worked right but a little bit of it was a I want you know ethereum to be mine sort of thing um and he's I saw this in the room um
when we were visiting there.
So basically, uh, it kind of quite, it was quite dramatic, the trip.
So, so basically on this, this trip, um, uh, everyone went outside at some point and people were kind of a little bit sick.
The tech people were sick of what the business people were doing to some extent, you know, driving them crazy with all these meetings and stuff.
And the business people were sick of the tech people not delivering on their promises.
So it was a bit of a tense atmosphere.
But in the end, everyone realized that they needed to work together for Ethereum to succeed.
And so we all went back inside and tried to figure out how to move forward.

**SPEAKER_00:**
well and I I think one thing that's kind of interesting about it also is that it was very meritocratic right in in and like there was all this competition going on but even though like
Gavin was technically CTO and Vitalik is obvious Vitalik, but they didn't win.
The one that won was Jeff's Go client.
You could imagine in any other scenario, they could have just put their foot down and said, no, we're going to go with Python or no, we're going to go with C++.
But they went with the one that actually performed the best and was doing the best.

**SPEAKER_01:**
It was a surprise to me.
I was always treating C++ as the reference client.
And Gavin was sort of more of a spokesman over there at the time.
Jeff was sort of quieter.
At the last minute, I think there was some discussion about they needed to go through a security audit.
And the story I heard, I don't know if it's true or not, is that they chose to do Geth first, thinking that the C++ would be the last thing and they would put that out there.
but uh he kind of quietly went through that and uh I honestly like I don't know maybe I'll I'll step on toes saying this but like from using all of these clients the geth was the most stable at the time I would always like I would start it and it would run C++ was changing a lot and so often I would start it and oh it's not working today uh I think that plus the security audit pushed it over and people uh used that one a lot so

**SPEAKER_04:**
yeah yeah i i have a similar memory um and of course gavin went on later to create parody the rust version which i i think got pretty popular i'm not quite sure where it's where it stands today um so
Talking about security, I want to hone in on the theme of the shifting launch date.
Jim, do you remember our Victor II?
We had started to work on a company related to Aldus, and we're getting worried because they kept adding more stuff, basically.

**SPEAKER_01:**
um do you want to can you kind of go into our you know anything you remember from what it continued it would have continued except for a bit of unlock that in a way was lucky uh is what ended up happening is bitcoin crashed at that time and it really put the fire under everybody's feet that they had to get this thing out immediately
Because their holdings were in Bitcoin.
And so I think if that hadn't happened, there wouldn't have been the pressure to push it out right then and there.
And they might have just kept adding and modifying indefinitely after that.

**SPEAKER_04:**
So I believe the foundation was paying people sort of denominated in the fiat currency, but with Bitcoin.
So, you know, if it's X number of thousand euro or USD per month, the Bitcoin amount would vary.
And yes, to that end, everyone I remember in that room at Zoog,
There was discussion of like, well, what if Bitcoin goes to 10,000?
Because that would be really high at that time.
We shouldn't convert it.
And they ended up being right.
I think the prudent move would have been...
at least some diversification in the treasury.
I believe they kept it all in Bitcoin and paid it out, I think in Bitcoin, but again, the amount would vary.
And of course, some bills just had to be in Euro or...
whatever the Swiss francs if that's a or uh USD and so there was no avoiding the fact that runway was shrinking from you know having brought in the roughly 22 million um ramping up big dev teams a lot of redundancy so I think three full dev teams for the clients maybe half a dev team for python because it was kind of just Vitalik working out how it all works it was not going to be as fast as the others because there's a python um
Then there was, I think they started paying the JavaScript people later.
There's development of the Mist browser.
The libraries and tooling started getting going.
They were doing a lot.
And almost all of it was technical.
not too much had like a business development you know focus and yeah then the price drops and suddenly what had gone i believe they had forecast a 2016 launch timeline and it got moved up to maybe july 2015. so we're sitting there you know in march we're like oh you're telling us the thing is going to launch in 2016 like did we be doing this and then it moves up
it was great that it moved up um jim do you recall how do you remember how you predicted roughly when it would launch no i'm not sure what you're referring to um i think you plotted a commit graph where like it was like commits by day in the ethereum repo yes i remember this i don't remember this but okay i don't doubt i did it
yeah and so like they the July date called a couple uh was after the deadline had been moved a couple times so basically they're running out of money they move the the deadline the launch date way up right and and they move it I remember thinking very heavily about how it had been changing very quickly and then it slowed down and I was happy yeah

**SPEAKER_00:**
And I will say that 2016 day happened after a series of changing dates because we were like, hey, you know, we want to launch this company, but we need, you know, we were still connected to the hopefully the live net at the time.
And so we were like trying to time our thing and they were like changing dates all the time, too.
And so I think the 2016 date was like the sort of last one before they kind of changed their mind and refocused.

**SPEAKER_04:**
There were many eras, which everyone has copied since.
What were all the names?
Serenity after it launched.
There was Metropolis.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Serenity.

**SPEAKER_04:**
They were epochs where there would be testing of the software.
And they intended to stay in testnet for quite a long time.
That's the upshot.
And I think they ended up crediting some of the testnet mind ether 1 to 10, I guess.
10 to 1 against uh really there's a 10 of the value uh for the people who mind on the testnet so they made it kind of progressively more real but it it really was fortuitous that there was that price crash because we might never have seen it might have never seen the light of day so many of the I I think you you didn't even elucidate like all of the projects like there was a Raspberry Pi clay
i forgot about the raspberry pi there were like so many projects like it was like we were like what is going on here you know like they built you know okay so there were many different i think i said um there was serpent which was the python-like language that compiled evm
There's Solidity, which won.
Sorry, C++ lost, but Solidity won.
And Solidity was kind of put together by Gammon.
It's sort of a C JavaScript-looking language.
There was another one.
LLL.

**SPEAKER_00:**
LLL was like a Lisp-like language.
Yeah, it was like Lisp-like.

**SPEAKER_04:**
To some extent, it let the developers just be free to do things that developers always want to do, like build peer-to-peer messaging systems, write compilers.
It was like, put it where it works.
Exactly, yeah.
Yeah, that was that was funny.
OK, let's go to because we can get close to wrapping up here.
And, you know, if if there's interest, we could do another one of these because there's lots after the launch.
Let's go to kind of right before the launch.
OK, so as we're talking about the launch run up, a bunch of interesting things happened.
One, we had started to some extent working as part of consensus.
So we kind of joined the company and they function sort of as an incubator basically for us and plenty of other firms, concepts, some of which stayed in-house, some of which also spun out.

**SPEAKER_01:**
Brooklyn was awesome too.
I had never been to Williamsburg, Bushwick, and it was sort of moving in various locations there.
So I used to love coming and hanging out at the offices.

**SPEAKER_04:**
yeah it was uh consensus got the the famous office on bogart but first was at an office by the water in williamsburg it was like something it was in greenport i remember getting completely lost at one point and finding it and like yeah williamsburg is

**SPEAKER_01:**
is great.
I remember, I remember like sitting there one day and all of a sudden everybody came screaming in and they were filming an episode of girls outside.
And so I ran outside and watched them film an episode of girls or part of an episode of girls, not the whole episode.

**SPEAKER_00:**
wow yeah that was so okay so that's earlier it wasn't that March April yeah I think it was April May kind of thing well we moved into the Bogart office um just before the launch of ethereum in fact we we one of the reasons we moved into that office a little bit earlier was so we'd have enough space to do a bigger hackathon right right okay yeah I do remember that um

**SPEAKER_04:**
So, you know, so we're frantically building the software.
We're starting to work with people from within consensus.
So we had some folks, you know, join the project, some of whom have gone on to, you know, big blockchain success.
Should we tell the Tim story?

**SPEAKER_00:**
Well, yeah, I mean, Tim, the founder of Truffle, helped us kind of build our first blockchain explorer.
You know, I mean, he was a brilliant developer back then and still remains a brilliant developer.
Aaron, I think, helped us kind of, he, who went on to build Metamask.
You know, we had lots of conversations with him about how to create our Rust API and how it would work.

**SPEAKER_04:**
I met up a couple times at my place in Berkeley with Aaron also.
It was funny.
These folks would just come by, and now they're sort of different levels of a big deal.
Yeah, exactly.
I feel like you should tell the hard-hitting version of the Tibbs story, just a little bit, because it was funny in retrospect, right?

**SPEAKER_00:**
Well, I think the thing is that we were really focused on, at the time, I think the first idea that we had with Block Apps was that we would create a REST API
um and we you know i i come from sort of a lean startup background like we really want to push deadlines and at the time people were more in an exploration mode they were trying to do different things and i was kind of ratcheting up the pressure to kind of present this at some at
I don't know if it was a conference or some meetup in a particular night and you know as I kind of ratcheted up the pressure to do that people were like you know I think I want to kind of pursue my other interests instead of like working in this high pressure environment and you know like and a lot of early consensus was like that like it was like different working styles and different methodologies but in the end it was kind of amazing like you know the people who did stuff

**SPEAKER_04:**
yeah I would say uh lots of really smart people um and a lot of flow between projects it was amorphous at the beginning um there was a lot of excitement but it was also hard to like get someone who was your assigned to your team to like do the thing you expected um well that's the thing is that there weren't team assignments right like there weren't the teams I mean we had

**SPEAKER_00:**
we they were suggested you know exactly like and but you know people were just flowing in and out which is great for creativity but was hard when you were trying to make a deadline because you know when you're trying to make a deadline there's always sort of not great things to have to do right like you gotta work really long hours and that kind of stuff

**SPEAKER_04:**
yeah and um let me see what I felt um so we kind of we looked and saw um you know in our early approach some success at API companies like chain.com was at the time touting a big list of customers that use their API they then pivoted to a couple other things a more Enterprise Outlook and then they kind of
a little bit pivoted back and then we're you know eventually bought by sort of bought by Stellar I believe um so there's some precedent for like okay let's let's have an API let's make this really easy um for people to use and this being you know the ethereum network itself
And I think we found pretty strong resistance to this idea.

**SPEAKER_03:**
Do you want to talk more about this?

**SPEAKER_00:**
I think while you guys were working on the client, what I was trying to do was build smart contract based applications, right?
it was really like you described some of the tooling right which was missed and like for front ends and um you know the languages were constantly changing like a lot of this seemed to be an afterthought like okay we're gonna solve that later on them the puzzle but it was impossible to build an application share it around um just get something running quickly you know and so we like
know my background was like web and mobile startups and like the first thing you look for is a rust api and i thought like okay if if we're ever going to get this ecosystem to really work we need to have something like that so people can build these applications on you know we couldn't cobble together all these tools but yeah we got a lot of resistance to it um because you know it was like we were speaking martian to people like these are people but they

**SPEAKER_04:**
had no like um interest in like anything that sounded a little bit corporatey so yeah it wasn't even corporate it was more like like you know like there was a general suspicion of servers i remember the phrase like yeah i don't know if i want to work anything on anything that involves any servers i remember at the time you know

**SPEAKER_00:**
like a peer-to-peer network it's like every peer is both a client and a server like you know it's sort of kind of intrinsic you know yeah there was a lot of belief in the time that effectively everyone would run a node and like you know like at some point you'd run a node in your browser or run a node on your phone and I'm like look I ran a mobile application company like
I know how big these clients are like I don't want my first thing's gonna get very hot yeah exactly like burning my ass you know sitting in my pocket trying to mine ether right so yeah it was just very strange though these kind of conversations yeah

**SPEAKER_04:**
And kind of concurrently, so more aligned with our perspective, ConsenSys sort of grew an enterprise team which focused sort of on advising big corporates on blockchain and then implementing it for them.
And we kind of worked with them on go to market even before the launch of Ethereum, more after.
So we kind of hold on that discussion.
maybe for a subsequent episode.
But OK, what about, do you guys have any specific memories of the hackathons we did?

**SPEAKER_00:**
So the first hackathon we did was in Greenpoint.
And we basically, it was sort of internal to consensus people.
And I think it was mostly interns that had participated.
We had a very crude version of our API working.
it was really um you know like I think over I think over uh a 48-hour period no one could build anything basically like it was like um
But I think the premise that people were coming up with to use our API to build stuff, we could see some potential in it.
So people were doing interesting things like incentivizing location-based scavenger hunts and other kinds of things.
And we found that interesting enough that, and I think that was in May, June of 2015 by that time.
And then we figured out that the launch would probably happen
in August of that year and we're like okay let's
take off all the input we got from that hackathon and do like a real hackathon, like get a bunch of participants, get a bunch of people involved and try and get all the people from ConsenSys, but people outside ConsenSys involved.
And we were kind of like targeting that day.
So we were like furiously trying to make our product more stable and work and take all the input we got from that first one into the second one,
when we didn't know exactly I think the plan was to do it on the day of the launch of ethereum and but we didn't know the exact date yet so we're just furiously right before or right after I can't remember I I think it was right after yeah I think it was like two days after or something like that but you know it was it was in the same timing of the launch basically so I re you know as far as I'm aware that was like the first ethereum hackathon

**SPEAKER_01:**
I remember maybe it was the second or third one.
We met the crane brothers.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Oh yeah.
Yeah.

**SPEAKER_01:**
That's where they, uh, I think that was the one right after the lawn.

**SPEAKER_00:**
That was, yeah, that was later.
They won, didn't they?
Um, they didn't won the one at the launch they won.
So that hackathon where we met them was actually the first, um, consensus conference hackathon.

**SPEAKER_02:**
I don't think that's true.
I think that one was later.
Oh, no, you're right.

**SPEAKER_04:**
you're right you're right I think they came to the first you you're right I think they came to that very first hackathon yeah so I I think or at least John did well maybe yeah they came to the second one the first one right after the launch right um the uh this is funny uh this is another foreshadowing for a future episode but yes the IBM you know they've been circling this this whole time and they do appear in the next episode if it comes at the consensus hackathon

**SPEAKER_00:**
um like i remember us furiously and and just the uncertainty of the launch i was like i remember we had many many conversations like is this thing ever gonna launch like we weren't sure if it would happen yeah do you remember okay let's talk quickly about the mining um that we did um and this was all for the company you know um but
do you do you recall uh what we we did at that time yeah I totally remember so I remember well at some point up to the launch we realized okay if we were going to help um if we were going to help businesses or other groups build applications on ethereum we would need ether to be able to pay for gas for those transactions and so
we're like well where are we going to get this ether from and you know I think the first thing that happened was you guys were like oh we need to build a mining rig right oh I thought over to you Jim I think that was uh Karen and I drove up to fries and picked up a bunch of components we did and you know we were kind of ready for it because we I believe we had you had helped me build just like a workstation

**SPEAKER_03:**
Yeah, I think that's right.
Or two before.

**SPEAKER_04:**
Basically, like the compile times on my laptop were double or quadruple what they were on the workstation.
So it's made a big productivity difference.
We went back and yeah, I think so.
I moved closer to campus at that time.
We took a couple of different shots at mining.
But what did you know?
I think.

**SPEAKER_01:**
mine exploded the power supply blew up the graphics card was actually okay something happened to yours I can't remember but we got it going eventually but the part that was funny I remember is that we spent like two or three days building these machines getting it up putting the software on getting it running hitting some problems and uh it started like

**SPEAKER_00:**
ether started to dribble in at that point in time so we're like oh this is awesome and then we called up Victor and he's like yeah in the last half hour I just like spun up a few machines at Amazon and I'm getting as much ether as you guys are well it was more than a few machines so like I remember watching you guys build this and like thinking like oh like this is good launch any day now right like so like I I said like can someone give me an image
of the go client so and I took that image and I just like put it on Amazon and a bunch of spot instances and at some point I was like running like and I just bought as many spot instances as were available like what whatever meant my price I bought and this was before you know mining was even known that this was something that happened so I could still get it pretty cheap
and they're warranted the blockchain itself was small enough that you could sync up pretty fast if you were starting none of this is stuff you could do today in fact none of this exactly and it stopped being effective like i mean there were like i remember at the point of the launch i you guys were saying yeah we got our first ether and i was like do you see this graph like you know this is the total mining power of the ethereum network that large wedge which was like 25 is me it's

**SPEAKER_04:**
God, we should have cranked it up just like another couple of weeks longer.

**SPEAKER_00:**
I know.
Well, I think by the time, you know, three days have passed, I passed like several thousand dollars.
Like our AWS bill was like... Yeah, it seems super expensive at the time.
It seemed super expensive at the time.
And like, I was like, oh, wow, like this is good.
But yeah, I should have ran it like, you know, a month basically.
And then it was pretty amazing.
Because like...
I'm not a DevOps guy, but I was running hundreds of machines at a time, and it was just amazing.

**SPEAKER_02:**
One thing I struggle to remember, how did they communicate that the network was ready to launch?

**SPEAKER_04:**
Was it Twitter, email?
How did we even know?
We knew from the commits that it was close.
This is why I brought it up before.
They're like, okay, they're slowing down.
They're getting ready.

**SPEAKER_01:**
I don't remember how they communicated it, but we were pretty into, uh, involved in consensus at those days and everybody was talking about it.
And there were like multiple groups there that were getting ready to spin up lots of mining.
And so there was no, there was no missing it at the time.

**SPEAKER_00:**
Yeah.
yeah sorry like like I said I think there was but like I think they had announced the date but there was still a lot of uncertainty whether they would meet that date or not right and it turned out they did like that did turn out to be the date but like everyone was kind of gearing up but we were also like getting ready like oh you know it might not happen that day it might be a couple days later it could be a couple months later we just weren't sure yeah oh man those

**SPEAKER_03:**
Those are some times for sure.
Yeah.
Okay.

**SPEAKER_04:**
So I think this is a good wrapping point for this first episode.
Hopefully we'll see if we get any feedback from the Internet at large, whether we should keep going down this path.
But, you know, quite the journey already.
Lots of interesting things I've even remembered, you know, in the course of our couple hours here.
Thanks, guys.
It does feel like we should keep going with the story, but we'll see.
We'll leave it as a cliffhanger, all of the excitement to come.
Any final words?

**SPEAKER_00:**
well I I think you know it's funny even if you look at the beginning you see the same patterns now where there's this like huge amount of inflow and then you know what seemed at the time like tons of hype but now is like a trickle of hype and and what seems like tons of capital but now would be considered a trickle of capital
and then like a kind of overconfidence and then you know a tightening but then you know real technical stuff gets done in the tightening it's funny how that pattern has played out so couple times now yeah it's a funny type of thing we'll tell you about the time we saw Vitalik through his shirt at someone

**SPEAKER_04:**
Oh, that's a good story.
Yes, it's our short story is a good one.
All right.
Let's let's end it here.
Thanks, guys.
You know, we're doing this recording on a Sunday.
Hope it entertains and informs the wider world.
And we'll see you next time.