SPEAKER_00: What are you using? I use Restream. We tried to use something, and it streams on Twitter, I think YouTube, and LinkedIn at the same time.

SPEAKER_02: So we're using StreamYard. We're using StreamYard, and I'm just double checking. Screwing around with different tools trying to find anything that's... Everything seems a bit...

SPEAKER_04: No. I'm perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Then I'll share the one. I don't know if you've tried this one, but this one looks pretty cool, pretty good. Because you're thinking that there must be good software for this. Right? It's such a common need.

SPEAKER_02: Like, is there just an answer that just works?

SPEAKER_04: But the thing is, like, those platforms, they're not built with interoperability in mind. They don't like it. They wanna lock you in. Yeah. Exactly. And so that's against our vision. On X, there isn't even a means to download the bloody audio. Yeah. It's why would you wanna download it? That's something, I guess, the next step in maybe five, ten years. Somebody else? Be able to own your data in all those platforms. Even own a query or just access. Something I love about Google is I can go and activate the tracking, but at least I can go and say, what did I do that week? I went in front of that restaurant or that store. It was pretty nice. And I can go and see and check. I have access to that. It can be helpful. But most of those things, they have thousands of data, but they don't even share it with you. Yeah. Exactly. That's right. And I find it quite...

SPEAKER_03: Quite well.

SPEAKER_01: Five zero one. Oh, yeah. We are live. So we are live. No. No. No. I'm ready. No. But that was a good cold intro. Right? So we have a very special guest today, but a special format because all of us for a change are in real life in the same room. In the same room. Amazing. And you are a special guest.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Sure. So, yeah, we have here today with us, Meslam. Yes. Exactly. Meslam, who is the executive director of the EEA, the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, which all of us at this table have had a hand in, a part in over the years. Yeah. Healthy run. Yes. Exactly.

SPEAKER_03: Right. So yeah. Is it like eight years now? Since 2017. Yep. February 2017 was the last date on the twenty eighth. There was prework.

SPEAKER_02: Solidly before. At least three months, they didn't work. There were meetings I was part of in December and January. There would, I mean, those were the first big meetings. Right. With whatever thirty, forty people, crazy amounts. But, yeah, it really started probably at DevCon two, really. It did. It did. Those were the discussions. So that was Shanghai, October.

SPEAKER_03: But there was the kickoff meeting at the JPMorgan office, which was pretty big. And even before, there were the closed door meetings at Microsoft.

SPEAKER_02: Right. So that was public launch this February. It was February. But December, there was an internal one, and then JPMorgan was in January 2017. But, yeah, a lot of those initial contacts happened at DevCon two. Yep. In October the previous year. Well, in the DevCon two. Oh, yes. Yeah. So basically...

SPEAKER_01: Basically, there was a lot of conversations there about figuring out how to bring on enterprises too. And there were a lot of interested parties. And, yeah, the group of people, which was I think about six people that were interested, met at a Starbucks just off-site. And that was sort of the idea formation thing about the...

SPEAKER_02: And then Matt Spoke of Nuco held a little bar side event as well, which we have some technical issues. Space. Yeah. 5AM.

SPEAKER_04: That's not... Oh, okay. Hold on one second. Just gonna push. James is gonna tell everybody.

SPEAKER_02: We have a technical issue, everybody.

SPEAKER_01: I can... I was... I will fix that? Oh, did I? I messed up the Twitter. You did a bad one. Yeah. I did a bad one. So everyone please join us on YouTube. Spaces at 5AM.

SPEAKER_02: Right. Yes. Half by 12AM. Matt Spoke held a little event at one of the bars upstairs, which I went to when there were various others there, if you went to that as well.

SPEAKER_01: I didn't go to that one. So I think the main thing was that... yeah. So I think the main thing... I'm gonna try and fix this right now on Twitter. Live technical support, see if I can resolve it right now. If not...

SPEAKER_04: I am.

SPEAKER_02: I did choose a... There also has parallel in that, because I was still working for the Ethereum Foundation at the time, was that there was an enterprise Slack set up there, which was actually started by Vitalik, who afterwards said people kept badgering him about enterprise. That's right. So at some point, he just dumped the ball in a Slack and run away. That was the technique. So that was not quite the same group. It was a larger group, but slightly different. Luca was part of that. Luca was part of that. Yeah. Also by the way, we should introduce ourselves. Oh, we should. Yeah. Hi. I'm Bob Summerwill. I'm head of ecosystem at...

SPEAKER_03: ChainSafe. James, CEO of BlockOps. Victor Wong. Creators of...

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Victor Wong, chief product officer of BlockOps. So sorry. Back. But, yeah, AMIS as well. Do you remember them? Yeah. Oh, yeah. So Taiwan. We should check in on. I haven't thought about AMIS until...

SPEAKER_02: No. In several years until the beginning. So the interesting thing about what they were doing, so that was some Taiwan bank consortium thing. Yep. But then they did work on Chinese cryptography and stuff. They've got different requirements. Right? Yeah. And the Masterchain, which was in Russia, that was like a Sberbank thing. Yeah.

SPEAKER_04: Sberbank was sanctioned. I have a question. I could even... I could do it Russian. Because you have a... I was not at that time. And so it's very interesting for me to... what were the hopes and really excitement that you see. You were part of those early conversations. This was created, I think, 13 companies. It's a pretty big event. Yeah. As you mentioned, JPMorgan and everything, all those big names coming into the ecosystem. And what were the hopes and really the overall atmosphere when the EEA was created eight years ago? Yeah. Well, I mean, ConsenSys were very critical as well.

SPEAKER_02: Because they were doing a load of the enterprise engagement stuff. Right? They... you've got many, many companies starting to get interested in, hey, we wanna do a pilot. We wanna get involved. So ConsenSys were doing a lot of those. So they ended up having a lot of those connections of bringing those in together. But, yeah, over those months, you really have... they've got a hell of a lot of momentum.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. Really, really quick. So the observation during DevCon two when the idea was hatched was basically that at least at the innovation lab level, a lot of the enterprises were just using and forking their own flavor of Ethereum. They had hacked their own consensus algorithms and security and... Many guests. Many guests, indeed. We learned later that a lot of JPMorgan's Quorum was initially built by Jeff Wilcke.

SPEAKER_02: He had some kind of... And that was not announced at the time of DevCon two. That was still behind the scenes for a few months. Yeah. That happened just before the EEA started. But, yeah, you'd got all of this stuff brewing up, I mean, for years earlier. If you think of ErisDB that became Monax, that became Hyperledger Burrow, so that was a permissioned Ethereum client of POC five pre-mainnet, mid twenty fourteen, of sticking Tendermint onto an EVM. So, yeah, it was all a bit smashed apart.

SPEAKER_03: But it was like, the time is right for us to work together because we've all got the same needs. Us too. We had our own client, and it got used in a bunch of the ConsenSys consulting engagements at that time, and we started, even then, kinda tuning it for enterprise. And so I guess the idea was, well, maybe enterprises won't adopt if there isn't a standard for all of this new stuff that they need that's above and beyond the base...

SPEAKER_01: Well, I think clients... I think it was even beyond that. There was just tons of technical work going on in each individual company siloed to get Ethereum to do what they wanted to do in a private way. Yeah. So everyone was bolting on these things. And what came out of those early conversations at DevCon was, wait. While doing similar things, maybe if we all kind of work together, we could do it faster and get this up faster. And that was all around private Ethereum. And I guess also a marriage between...

SPEAKER_02: Kind of customers of these things and builders. Of saying you've got all these kind of startup-y kind of companies that are making Ethereum things, and you've obviously got big demand from really major enterprises to have this, but there's... but, yeah, on that standardization side, there was nothing, and it's you're all gonna get vendor locked instantly, and it'll all just be arbitrarily different and painful and horrible. So let's try and work out... because, well, at some point as well with Quorum, it was kind of like, are we gonna collaboratively do code bases as well? Hyperledger was another piece into this is that a few months earlier, I've spent a bunch of time working on C++ relicensing, C++ client to get back to Apache 2, so it could have been contributed into Hyperledger and we could have gathered around that. That fucked up. So the EEA was kind of a backup, I guess. It's like, right, we can't have this grand fusion, but there's enough happening on the Ethereum side that we can at least get all the Ethereum pieces together and... then, yeah, I guess it went quite quickly from, okay. We don't wanna straight compete with Hyperledger. Having a shared code base also kind of screws up companies.

SPEAKER_03: Competed. So I think let me, in the spirit of spiciness...

SPEAKER_01: I think the enterprise users would have preferred a shared code base. Right. And they wanted to commoditize any difference among the startups out of existence so that they could never be vendor locked again. They've had these...

SPEAKER_03: Horrific, IBM nightmares, Oracle nightmares over the years, and they're just like, not this time.

SPEAKER_02: We're not going to live through this. I mean, also, you have got that market pressure of Quorum coming out, of IBM launching Fabric. They were already gonna end up that kind of nominally open source but quite proprietary. So those were both shooting for release in February 2017. So it's that kind of timeline is like, right, we've gotta get our shit together to be able to do an Ethereum product thing that can have some hope against IBM.

SPEAKER_03: I suppose, the EEA at that time, I remember one of our prominent enterprise user EEA members said, they've got a call with 300 people on it every week trying to sell into the big banks, let's say. Right. And, it's funny that all of the... Ethereum just survived all of this more or less not paying any attention than the competition kinda came in...

SPEAKER_01: Well, I think there was another parallel thing that was happening. At that DevCon, really, we're the first... the kind of enterprise use cases we talk about today. For example, Santander talked about US dollar on chain, which we all recognize as a stablecoin now. And it didn't make...

SPEAKER_04: Tokenized bank deposit effects. You see, Victor, I think that's a very cool parallel. You set the stage pretty well for where it's coming from. Yeah. And then where it started eight years ago, you mentioned innovation labs starting to contribute to some codes. We've known the use cases that blockchain and Ethereum can solve for a long time. Right. Oh, yeah. But it's only actually now, and it's been for probably the last year, that things have been really changing drastically. Yeah. And to take your words for when you say innovation lab, it's not innovation lab anymore looking at how they implement blockchain in their ecosystem. It's really like... It's actually executive teams that say, hey. We wanna plan what is the production, how we get it to market. Thankfully, they're scared now. So they better move for us. I don't know if it's... there is... but there were some interesting talk when we were at CyBos, the SWIFT conference last time. Mentioned that because you were just at CyBos, and you're dealing with what we think of as tried by institutional players. And that's where you have a lot of communication. So what were your impressions about where they're at with that? Because that's the other side that we talk about last year. The digital asset tokenization...

SPEAKER_04: Is definitely a hot topic everyone is looking at. Because they know it's happening. They wanna be involved, and it's more... and now, especially, there is less regulatory... I'm sure they inject... the listeners may not know what CyBos is. Oh, yeah. So CyBos is the big SWIFT conference. SWIFT, if you're not familiar, is a messaging system that a lot of 11,000 financial institutions around the world... it's actually a co-op. It's a DAO for...

SPEAKER_03: Trade by. Kudos to Danielle from ConsenSys who said that to me once. It is a DAO. Although, it's like, can we buy in now? I feel like very easy... I guess you're... Restricted. Yeah. Token gated. Yeah. And the token is having probably a bank license. The London Metal Exchange is like this too. It's you wanna sign up. You gotta buy a bunch of shares and then there's an annual fee and whatnot, and you have to put someone...

SPEAKER_04: There all the time. To join the trade guild. Yes. Yes. I... that you gotta do your... Yes. Yeah. Exactly. And so CyBos is a big conference. It's a big makeup of payments, I would say, every year. So you have all the big financial institutions. Also global financial institutions like clearing houses, settlements. So you work there, DTCC, etcetera, but also all the banks. And they gather here, and then there is a lot of conversation. What is very interesting is actually CyBos and SWIFT is a very kind of standard organization. Because what they do is, how we make sure we send messaging across all of us that everyone is sure is gonna understand. And so they used to have a different kind of messaging format, and recently now, they're migrating to something new, which is ISO 20022. Which is, if you wanna go and dive deeper into this, this is really how every financial institution wants to discuss. They've been working on that spec for a long time, and that's how anything that can touch finance...

SPEAKER_03: From securities to payment, they have to be qualified. Yeah. I think it's good to explain. So most of finance gets cleared through messaging. Mhmm. And it's... so crypto people are used to putting a transaction in and then it goes everywhere. Yes. It's not really like this. Oh, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Indeed. It is that...

SPEAKER_04: The process of what we call delivery versus payment in traditional finance, it's a pretty complex thing because how you make sure when you deliver the money, the money has been received, that you receive the asset, that everything has been... And it's a lot of dance because you receive message, you send another one, and it's not like how we used to do where in crypto, we submit, and it's actually an atomic transaction, which is just one thing. And when the transaction is complete, you know it's been executed, it's been delivered, and all the parties... that is actually... I give you the can. Well, I know you've been giving me the money exactly. Where actually there is a little bit of dance. Well, I put the can here. You see the can that has been moving here. You send the money. And so the blockchain here offers such efficiencies because things that were the T+1 or T+2 for some of those different exchanges. Now you do it, well, depending on what chain you're gonna deploy... Yeah. Between a second to even less than that. Yeah. And also SWIFT...

SPEAKER_03: Isn't a payments mechanism. Right? No. It's a message... another... that's another comment. So let me, I think, interject with this specific example. I think they're biggest in FX. Right? Yes. So let's say I've got some USD, and I want some euro. And we kinda agree to a USD euro trade. And so we... I guess we look up whatever the pair is trading at. And I think it's like, I send my side of the trade with some unique ID to SWIFT, and you do too. And then SWIFT checks if it matches. It charges $7 either way. If it does match, then it'll tell us that it matched.

SPEAKER_04: Well, I don't think it's actually exactly this way. It's more SWIFT offers a type of envelope and a format of envelope and paper and ink that we know how to use and how we're supposed to fill up some forms. Then how we trade those forms between different market participants, it's not much... the people... they're gonna be some corresponding banking that's gonna be locally taking your cash, and everyone is gonna take their share. But it's... It's not moving the asset. It's just like I have the USD on my bank list. That's big thing. You got the euro...

SPEAKER_04: On your bank list. Talking to each other in a secure and compliant way for... because it's also, oh, you send that. You have to send some specific messaging for compliance. Then I send another one saying, hey. I checked. There is all the information, and you... A bunch of local jurisdiction specific...

SPEAKER_04: Yeah. It's a lot of different handshakes for all the... Yeah. I looked at way someone described it. It's like a funny TCP handshake. It's sort of like what they're doing is tracking the transfers, but no money is actually moving, and then they have a list of IOUs. So when I send a SWIFT transaction from, let's say, I send $100 to you in France. And I go to my bank. I put in $100. The money doesn't go anywhere.

SPEAKER_04: It just... Oh, yeah. So the... It's the bank I have to... right. Bank off by the bank. The end of the day... Yes. Right. Money. RTGS. They're gonna do the transfer actually. Exactly. That's a different messaging. The... Yeah. If you research and I'm not a SWIFT expert, but I have to learn that in the last couple of months, I've done a little bit more deep dive. And it's fascinating because there is such a huge dance between two transfer of money because you have the money in your bank account, but then you actually have central bank money, then you have the deposit money. Yeah. So those, like, what you call m0, m1, m2. And so all of that is pretty complex. And then we're just talking about payment here. Talking about securities or those other financial instruments that you can exchange also using blockchain in a very efficient way. But that's... using stablecoin, you can make everything super simple. And also one misconception maybe I would love to mention is, we talked about stablecoin and CBDCs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They actually exactly the same thing. It's just in a different context. A CBDC is a stablecoin for central bank. And it's just the issuer. It's just the issuer is not the same. We never gonna really touch CBDCs because this is the money of banks, if you say. But almost, I think, from a technical level, it's very almost like a copy paste of the same contract. It's the mechanism. It's not. But we create a whole different language and terminology for that, but they're actually very similar. And funny fact, those CBDCs, they've been doing, the... I think the baby needed to grow. Like you said, DevCon two. So it was a two years old kid, Ethereum.

SPEAKER_01: And we were like, hey. Come in here. You can manage the most critical infrastructure of the planet, which is our money and how we do trade, and you can do all of this.

SPEAKER_04: And I think the Ethereum Foundation, I have to give them credit. For a long time, they were saying, hey, guys. You're not considering the enterprise, everything. But I think they did the right thing because they protected that baby. So it could grow, and we'd become... now we're at an age of... it's more mature. It's more than ten years. It's still not even a teenager. The analogy was if human is gonna take some limits. But we're at a point now where we have a technology, and Ethereum really has a capacity to answer all the challenges that are facing, that we're blocking with institutions, which is scalability, privacy, composability, and interoperability. Yeah. The four points that you had in the ARC paper from Circle. And now we have this. Just last week, ZK Sync announced up to 15,000 TPS. Yeah. And there is a new thing that almost every week have going on. So we really... now the technology, when it comes up, say, well, I need to make sure this is private. I need to make sure this is gonna be executed in a seamless way. Also, the decentralization, it's more about the way they look at it is more like the vendor lock-in, I would say, the best analogy, is that you wanna make sure the infrastructure you rely on is gonna be able to absorb your activity, but also be resilient enough. Yeah. This we still have some work because it's definitely... and I understand the perspective of institution to deploy on public infrastructure.

SPEAKER_01: At first, when Wikipedia showed up, like, twenty, twenty-five years ago, something like that, I think. I mean, I remember I was in my engineering college. I was at the board, and we were talking about having a wiki for doing some articles. And they were, like, those very academic guys that, this is unacceptable.

SPEAKER_04: It's not a... all that French accent. And this is unacceptable whenever you are gonna do this. This is anyone can put any information. This is not trust. To be clear, you are French. Yeah. You are... Yeah. You are allowed to. Yeah. You are allowed to. French too. Yeah. And so, and but they were in French. They were very... and protecting this and at that time, I said, well, we cannot trust something that's been built collectively like this. But now we know you have to take a grain of salt, but it's actually much more accepted. Those are reliable sources of information and that you can have things that are being built publicly that are actually very resilient.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, some... I'm so sorry. I was just gonna ask, but there's always this gap between what traditional institutions understand about... we all understand what's been capable for a really, really long time. But are there still gaps, or do you think that's been closed now? It's maybe grown up fully? Or but even if even when the capability is there, there's still, like, a knowledge gap, I think, sometimes.

SPEAKER_04: Let me put it this way. There is about if you combine all the different type of money, $123 trillion of cash around the world. Right. $300 billion are on chain. Right. So the numbers talk for itself. We're very early. So there is people... they can... I think we still have a lot of work to do in terms of education. But by education, I mean, really talking from product perspective. What business problem I can solve for you? How it's gonna be done, what is gonna be the maintenance after, how you're gonna deal with very specific use cases. And so you can have some teams that already have an understanding what you can achieve. Yeah. But we still need to provide, I think, as an ecosystem more structuring. Who you can work with, well, the different vendors, what services they can do, where they can help, what's the type of contract you're gonna have after. And really giving that overall perspective of a new entrant in the market. And so some of them, they understand very well, and they have already some pretty detailed questions, even asking me alright. We need to increase the contract size from the 24 to 48 kilobytes, and we have some stack overflow issues, well known. So... Yeah. The stack depth one that was always a problem. And so... Yeah. There is some of them. It's this. But then some other ones is this more product, they're gonna ask me, okay.

SPEAKER_01: What why should I go on an L2? What is the L1? What does it mean? And what about those chains? What are the primitives, explaining, well, if you build on any L2s...

SPEAKER_04: You actually gonna choose maybe one vendor in some way, but you can completely move your asset freely among all the ecosystem. The wallets are gonna be the same. A lot of things are gonna be equivalent that you don't have to rebuild. And so those are saying, you need to explain. Some of them, maybe people, they're gonna say, well, what is this? This is just some scammy or something like that. I think you can find all the layers, but now people, they also see the potential of what you can do with digital assets, tokenization. Right. And for people were a little bit looking around. I'm very excited to see what's gonna happen in the next six to twelve months because, the Genius Act was signed July or something like this. Clarity Act, I think, is still still a bit ongoing. But so now we... the... and we kinda also hear that there's really companies from either direction. So, okay, how we're gonna implement this? The fintech is also moving, so they're like, the fact that they're building their L... even if they're building their L1, I wish they would do some L2s, and my door will always be open. Right. When you wanna consider that. There is a pretty great tool that can help. But that's gonna push the market and from a financial institution to really adopting this. There is organization like DTCC, the biggest clearinghouse in the world. All the securities in the world basically are being cleared over there. They released an incredible product four months ago in April, the Great Collateral, where they have a collection of hundreds of smart contracts that allows you to clear and to make some margin call and collateral management from different jurisdictions, which is a fantastic use case. When you see... I'm not a collateral management expert. But I understand the value, how this unlocks... you actually have something that you can take from your bank in Japan that you're gonna post for something in US because you have a market event. And this is something you would not even imagine before. And now you can do it, and it's compliant. It's actually legal, and that's gonna unlock so much efficiencies. And so that's in the next twelve months. That's gonna be a huge game changer. So it sounds like...

SPEAKER_01: The lid has been lifted off, and there's a ton of demand. But it's like walking down the path to supply that demand. That's the part that people are figuring out. Right? Is that right? Is that how...

SPEAKER_04: Very... I think the... it's such a very transformative technology for how those businesses operate. There is also how I'm gonna make money. Okay.

SPEAKER_03: So there's a fear element to it. Right? Go ahead. At least I... It's like, where... well, now I can have... chat. Yeah. I mean I'm a PSP provider. Let me ask you this. So in the early days, it felt like there was a focus on more back office use cases, like, yeah. How do I move the collateral from my Japan regional branch to my, whatever. Business process improvement. Business process improvements. I felt that there eventually became a... I think this started 2020, 2021, a shift for big corporations wanting top line use cases. Like, Nike was the first to sell a ton of NFTs. And then you're seeing like, I think, the digital assets treasuries are a kind of genius way for a token to... the company doesn't have to IPO. But there could be a token, and there can be something that kinda provides the traditional protections of equity that's publicly traded. And then you didn't... you could just leave this part sort of where it was, and somehow there's kinda like a merger going on. And this is creating good top line revenue for investment banks and, etcetera, etcetera. So is your sense that people want the efficiency to compete, or are they starting to think about it as a new revenue line or a transformed revenue line or something?

SPEAKER_04: Well, that's a billion trillion dollar question right there. I don't have the answer. What I could say is I see... I think if you look at operational optimization, it's more than that. If your capital flows more seamlessly, you make more money in the financials. Some flow. So the more you have a flow of your money easy, the more you're gonna be able to make some... to make some because you're gonna unlock some capital improvement. Yet, I think... and from conversations I've seen and where the... still don't have the golden thing, say, hey. That's gonna remix a little bit of all the different people and intermediaries and people working. Because if you suddenly have something that is being done a much, much more efficient way, well, some different intermediaries, then they might have to rethink the way of doing their business. This is not gonna happen from one day to another. What I can say is that because we're gonna have those new forms of working with digital assets, that's gonna be more like a golden era for opportunities to build, to build pretty fantastic products. And the people that understand pretty well the ethos of the Ethereum ecosystem and also blockchain in general, and some operations in traditional finance and be able to bridge those two, you're gonna be able to bring some amazing products. And that's what we see a little bit more with convergence. You have doing collateral products with Horizon and and and knocking... you have figure, like, you have a spike or you have some of those... how as we're gonna have now some assets that are on chain that maybe you can loan and you can collateralize and you can borrow money and you can have some liquidity from in front of those assets while being the actual... and also, I wanna stress, we say RWAs, RWAs, RWAs. But there is a lot of... we need probably to find some new language because there is... You know how I feel about that. I think the RWA term is so broad. We... yeah. We need... this can be a RWA. It does. And I can also take a picture of my bank account and say, hey, this is a tokenization of my bank account. I know. Exactly. And so there is all of the... US, but most of them, they actually kind of elaborate IOUs. And not all... and now we're moving towards more and more having some standards and things like... it's the legal... Yeah. You want the native issue. It's a scam. The token is the legal claim to the asset. Yes. Yeah. And that's when this happens and when focusing on that, that's gonna unlock some pretty incredible things because then it's the... and you connect this with DeFi. Maybe we some... you're gonna always need some form of AML, KYC, and everything. The DeFi... the... Yeah. Yeah. There's none for the last year. It's... they're probably gonna have two of those. But once you connect this, that's I think that's gonna be pretty incredible. But how do the institutions feel about...

SPEAKER_01: Obviously, as the head of the EEA, and you feel strongly about Ethereum too. Right? The Ethereum ecosystem broadly of L1s, multiples. How do they feel about that? Do they see any other... like, we know that Ripple has tried to attract that interest for a really long time. Are they kind of sold on Ethereum at this point, or are they looking... are they still kind needing to be convinced?

SPEAKER_04: I've heard several executives at presentation at CyBos saying, hey. Ethereum is the standard. EVM is the standard. This is the ecosystem. Having said that and as decision makers, they also wanna make sure they keep the door open and not being locked, they move progressively. 60% of the stablecoin issuance is on Ethereum. I think probably 85 to 90% of all the RWAs, it's the same. Some similar statistics about DeFi activities. That's Electric Capital, like... Yeah. You can see a graph, three times more like that. And then you also have the ecosystem in terms of builders and everything. So that's the most tragic... and an advanced ecosystem in terms of research and on every facet. And so that's... they know. They recognize. But it doesn't mean that we need to keep educating, to keep... Right. Working with the EF for instance. They've been incredible work for the last few months of really packaging the message in a better way that can be more digestible. But there's more, some work for instance, the protocol team, they're already addressing so many of the fears of different digital asset managers in financial institutions. But how we bring that message to the right people, package it in a way that it's easy to understand, that's some of the work that is being done as we speak, and that's gonna really help solidifying dominance position. But to also answer your question, some of those institutions, they say, hey. We wanna be multichain. We wanna look at everything, which I think it's absolutely fair, and I would do the same if I were in their shoes. So, okay. Well, they have some different assessment criteria, and they say, well, we're gonna take this chain, this chain, this chain, this chain, and then we'll see.

SPEAKER_02: I mean go back to... Beyond EVM, I mean, you've obviously got competition between Ethereum and other EVM flavors. What is the competition outside of that? Because I know there's... you've obviously got competition within that.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. What do you hear institutions...

SPEAKER_02: Doing non-EVM things as well?

SPEAKER_03: Just like hands around. I don't know what they're using. Do institutions use Solana at all? Well, I know, but it does... DA still have its own big proprietary-ish stack? It's not proprietary anymore, but it's Substance. Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Well Hedera. Is anyone using Hedera?

SPEAKER_04: Canton... What do hear? Competitive.

SPEAKER_03: I got it.

SPEAKER_04: Canton is probably the one the most advanced in terms of connection with the rest of the ecosystem. And I would say, not the rest, but the traditional finance. They have a way structure, though it's something I still don't completely understand. You can be validators, have some tokens that they're gonna exchange on some private market and so some form of revenue. And then they have already that... it's a consortium. It's a... it's a Quorum v2, I would say. And they've been able to bring in... they're gonna burn us, a lot of the different financial institutions. So but then once again and if you ask me, and I'm biased, of course, but this is an ecosystem. Canton code is open source and everything. But, well, you're still building on a technology that is not super... very... there's not a lot of people. When you're gonna be the CIO of a company and you need to have some maintenance or something? It's gonna be, what, 20 guys in a country that can do some work on this? And so that's the way I look at this. But the... I think Solana, I'm not sure who's the institution. I don't hear anything institutional...

SPEAKER_03: From Solana, but it seems popular nonetheless.

SPEAKER_01: Oddly enough, Ripple has been trying to do this for a long time, but I don't hear them brought up in the conversation...

SPEAKER_02: That much in... Nobody ever used Ripple.

SPEAKER_04: I've been in blockchain space a day. Not as long as you guys, but really since 2019. And I spent almost four years at ChainSafe. Very authentic builders, crypto native protocol development. And I've been to conferences with the engineers, and I asked them in a very candid way. Said, have you ever built on Ripple on some of their... and I had conversations with the engineers at ChainSafe. And we had some calls, we had some conversation in the Slack, I remember, and no one really came up with some very...

SPEAKER_02: Smart. It just got an infinite war chest for marketing... Well and lobbying.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, at one point, one of the CyBos conferences I went to years and years ago. Right? Ripple was supposed to have a huge booth and, like, I guess, SWIFT decided, oh, they're too much of a competitor, so they kicked them out.

SPEAKER_03: And this was... They were calling themselves the SWIFT killer. Right. For a while.

SPEAKER_01: They decided... Ripple decided, we're just gonna run our own conference in parallel with CyBos. They put on a parallel conference. Yeah. And Vitalik was speaking at their conference. And I remember... At the Ripple one? At the Ripple one. And I remember... Oh, you nearly interned that. They had buses in front of the CyBos contact, taking you to where their new conference was. And I remember seeing Vitalik ran across, looking for this conference because it was in this new place and we're all transferred. I remember waving him, over here, Vitalik. Over there. It's alright. It's Corda?

SPEAKER_02: People still using Corda? Archery?

SPEAKER_04: Right? It's being bought out by Celina. Corda is Celina. I don't think they're... Really?

SPEAKER_01: I don't think they would they would actually in those terms. I think it's a partnership, a collaboration. Yeah. Yes. They were not... absolutely, they weren't bought by.

SPEAKER_01: Not far enough. But yes. But I mean, I will say... Are you using Fabric still?

SPEAKER_04: Fabric? Anyone? Well, yes. Fabric. Behind the scene, the Fabric is still very present. I think central banks and those types of more very closed environments... even I'm not sure. BIS, Bank of International Settlement, which is for those who don't know, it's 40 different international banks that work together to optimize, I would say, the collaboration and exchange. But they had a project Agora that they started a couple of months ago. Yeah. Those are institutions where it takes much longer time, I think, to... They're starting new projects. That's not the same. The same Agora. But I would imagine maybe they were having some POCs before. I know some few central banks, they run using Fabric.

SPEAKER_02: It's probably like the Hyperledger and Fabric... Probably like the asbestos, isn't it? It's just gonna take years to sort of chat out.

SPEAKER_01: You need people in suits to... Yeah. I will say, I think we're almost at forty five minutes. Everyone's been very generous with this time. Think we asked. Do you have any final thoughts that you wanna share...

SPEAKER_04: With... on the Fabric. I know IBM is working on a bridge between Fabric to main... it's called Fabric XK. To Ethereum.

SPEAKER_02: So... Well can see that. Right? Well, one of their the big sell at New York Blockchain Week in 2018 was their EVM integration. Right. They did the...

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. They did the channel or something. It was...

SPEAKER_02: .js or whatever. That they did do this bunching together, and that was using Burrow. Right? Because you've got the Burrow. Burrow went into Hyperledger before Besu. And that was the continuation of that. ErisDB, Monax, on you went. Was never made net compatible, though. But there was that Go EVM within Hyperledger under the same licensing so they could wham those together. And, I mean, that's seven years ago. So, yeah, I'm sure that they need to have an even better EVM story these days. So if to answer your question and EVM is really the standard as...

SPEAKER_04: Everyone... that's what they're saying. You go through some different stages. You have the chief innovation officer of SWIFT and some different institutes. Understand that. They're like, that's gonna be understanding. That's what they say. I was really everywhere I went on all those different panels, we had a panel at 08:30 on permission-less versus private... Yeah. Network. It was hosted by Applied Blockchain, a member of the EEA. There was Citibank, Linux Foundation, decentralized trust, UBX, and me. And it was... we were full. There were people standing up, and there was the SWIFT innovation officers. Some other banks that came to talk to us. So people, they understand. Ethereum is definitely seen as the standard and the place where you wanna build because that's where you have access to the most liquidity, the most users, the most vibrant DeFi ecosystem. Which is something that is getting closer, I think, and say, well, maybe there is some way to make some money here. I don't know exactly how, but there is some potential. So I think the future is very bright for us. And I think that ties very nicely back to the start of the conversation and about the thoughts of the EEA and so on was...

SPEAKER_02: Something that Jeremy Millar said in the opening speech on the opening day was think of this as being like a router, an Internet intranet. There's no reason why suitably modular code bases shouldn't serve all of these use cases, public and private. And what we did not want to happen, and I remember being driven very much by this, was saying, let's not have arbitrarily different code bases for these different things because we can't be arsed having that conversation and making the effort to try and bridge those worlds. And that was really coming from that Fabric and Corda competition of these big enterprises basically being told, you Ethereum guys have got to get your stuff together or we're gonna get mandated to use this other stuff, and it doesn't matter what you want. It's like the spending has all been spent, and it's never coming back. So I think it's from to my mind, it's really superb to see where we are. It's like, that's what we were thinking. That was kind of the goal, right, is that this can be a standard for everything and, yeah, things were immature and maybe you needed to be doing consortium chains and you needed to take these baby steps on the way and wait for the tech to catch up. But really, it's like...

SPEAKER_04: This can be the answer for everything. So... Yeah. And I think that's where we are. And we're talking more and more, Ethereum Foundation has done an incredible job. They have an enterprise team also that's in conversation with everyone, and they can have... they have access to all the different leaders, and this has been very pretty fantastic. And so the more we discuss about this and say, hey. There is no CEO of Ethereum. This is not a private company. There's no CEO of Internet, has that. Yeah. That's what was saying. They always use Linux. Right? So... Yeah. That's something that is catching up more and more. And the more we're going... that's also the mission that what we do at EEA, going to have this conversation, doing events, bringing some people together from a few events that we do when we try to remix, DeFi, traditional finance institutions, pure Ethereum players, and have all those people talking together. That's how we make that moving forward. Well, on that note, I think we'll wrap up. But where can people find more about you and EEA in general? The website of... we are present on all the social media. The website is entandeastalliance.org. We have the same handle on Twitter, on LinkedIn. I'm also on LinkedIn and in Twitter and try to post often some articles and insights. And there's some more work that I'm gonna put together in a couple of weeks around RWAs and everything. And also always looking for some large institutions that would like to collaborate on some writing pieces. Yep. So we can really put some thought leadership and helping explaining what's being done. And I think bridging the Ethereum world with the traditional finance also something that we're pretty excited to do in a couple of weeks. Yeah. That's awesome. We'll be also in Singapore Fintech Week next month, in DevCon in Argentina...

SPEAKER_02: And we'll be also in Abu Dhabi for finance week. Cool. And, Bob, where can people find you? So, yeah, I'm on Twitter. Same as my name, Bob Summerwill with a w-i-l-l, not ville, not Sommerville.

SPEAKER_01: And... Not the German spelling. No. Yeah. Karen?

SPEAKER_03: James Logan on X, YouTube, etcetera.

SPEAKER_01: And you can find me on X at vic, v-i-c, the number four, w-o-n-g. Thank you for joining us for our first in person roundtable. Thanks again. It's awesome. It's awesome. Coming. Take care.

SPEAKER_04: That's pretty cool to be in a bush weekend.