SPEAKER_00: What are you using? I use Restream. We try to use something and it streams on Twitter, I think YouTube and LinkedIn at the same time.

SPEAKER_01: So we're using StreamYard too. We're using StreamYard and I'm just double checking.

SPEAKER_02: We have been screwing around with different tools trying to find anything that seems a bit...

SPEAKER_03: None of them are perfect.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, that. I'll share the one. I don't know if you should try this one, but this one looks pretty, pretty cool, pretty great.

SPEAKER_02: Because you're thinking there must be good software for this, right? It's such a common need. Like isn't there just an answer that just works?

SPEAKER_00: But the thing is like those platforms, they're not built with interoperability in mind.

SPEAKER_03: They don't like it.

SPEAKER_02: They want to trap you in.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, exactly. That's, that's against our vision.

SPEAKER_02: On X there isn't even a means to download the bloody audio.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it's...

SPEAKER_02: Why would you want to download it?

SPEAKER_00: That's something, I guess the next step in maybe...

SPEAKER_02: Like you want to use it somewhere else.

SPEAKER_00: Are you seeing somebody else be able to own your data in all those platforms, even own or query or just access? Something I love about Google is like I can go, I can activate the tracking, but at least I can go and say, what did I do that week? I went in front of that restaurant or that store, it was pretty nice. And I can go and see and check, I have access to that. It can be helpful. But most of the things they have like thousands of data, but they don't even share it with you.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: I find it quite, quite well.

SPEAKER_03: 501.

SPEAKER_01: We are live. So we're live. No, no, I'm ready. No, but that was a good cold intro. Right, so we have a very special guest today, but a special format because all of us for a change, our life in real life, in the same room. In the same room.

SPEAKER_02: Amazing.

SPEAKER_01: And you are a special guest. Do you want to introduce?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, sure. So, yeah, we have here today with us Riadne Meslan, who is the executive director of the EEA, the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, which all of us at this table have had a hand and a part in over the years.

SPEAKER_03: Healthy run.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_03: So, yeah, like it's eight years now.

SPEAKER_00: It was 2017. Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: February 2017 was the launch date on the 28th.

SPEAKER_03: There was pre-work solidly before, at least three months, maybe more.

SPEAKER_02: There were meetings I was part of in December and January. There were... I mean, those were the first big meetings with whatever 30, 40 people, crazy amounts. But yeah, like it really started probably at DevCon 2. Really close with the discussions. So that was Shanghai, October.

SPEAKER_03: There was the kickoff meeting at the J.P. Morgan office, which was pretty big. And even before there were the closed door meetings at Microsoft.

SPEAKER_02: Right. So that public launch was February.

SPEAKER_03: It was February.

SPEAKER_00: But...

SPEAKER_02: But December there was an internal like one. And then J.P. Morgan was in January 2017. But yeah, like a lot of those initial contacts happened at DevCon 2 in October the previous year.

SPEAKER_01: Well, in the DevCon 2.

SPEAKER_03: Oh yes.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So basically there was a lot of conversations there about figuring out how to bring on enterprises too. And there were a lot of interested parties. And yeah, like the group of people which was I think about six people that were interested, met at like a Starbucks just off site. And that was sort of the idea formation thing about the...

SPEAKER_02: And then Matt Spoke of Nuco held a little bar side event as well. Which... Do we have some technical issues?

SPEAKER_01: Oh, okay, hold on a second.

SPEAKER_03: I'm just gonna push...

SPEAKER_00: James is gonna tell everybody we have a technical issue.

SPEAKER_02: Everybody.

SPEAKER_01: I can, I was, I will fix that. Oh did I, I messed up the Twitter.

SPEAKER_02: You did a bad one.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I did a bad one. So everyone please join us on YouTube.

SPEAKER_03: Spaces at 5am, right.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_02: But yeah, Matt Spoke held a little event at one of the bars upstairs, which I went to and there were various others there. I don't know if you went to that one as well.

SPEAKER_01: I didn't go to that one. So I think the main thing was that... yeah, so I think the main thing, I'm gonna try and fix this right now on Twitter, live technical support, see if I can resolve it right now. If not, I did choose a...

SPEAKER_02: But also parallel in that, because I was still working for the Ethereum Foundation at the time, was that there was like an enterprise Slack set up there which was actually started by Vitalik who afterwards said people kept badgering him about enterprise.

SPEAKER_01: That's right.

SPEAKER_02: So at some point he just dumped the ball in a Slack and ran away. That was the technique. So that was a not quite the same group. It was a larger group but slightly different.

SPEAKER_01: Nuco was part of that.

SPEAKER_02: Nuco was part of that also. By the way we should introduce ourselves.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Hi, I'm Bob Summerwill. I'm head of ecosystem at Stratum CardKing.

SPEAKER_03: James Lubin, CEO of BlockApps, creators of STRATO Mercata.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And Victor Wong, Chief Product Officer, BlockApps. So sorry, back...

SPEAKER_00: But...

SPEAKER_02: But yeah, Amis as well.

SPEAKER_01: Do you remember them?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, we should check in on... I haven't thought about Amis until, in like several years, until the moment.

SPEAKER_02: So the interesting thing about what they were doing, so that was like some Taiwan bank consortium thing. But then they did like work on like Chinese cryptography and stuff. Like they've got differing requirements, right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And Master Chain, which was in Russia, that was like a Sberbank thing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Before they got sanctioned. I have a question because you have, I was not at EEA at that time, and so it's very interesting for me to, what were the hopes and really excitement that you see? You were part of those early conversations. This was created, 13 I think companies. It's like a pretty, it was a pretty big event. As you mentioned, J.P. Morgan and everything. All those big names coming into the ecosystem and what were the hopes and really like the overall atmosphere when the EEA was created like eight years ago?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean, so, I mean, ConsenSys were very critical as well because they were doing a load of the enterprise like engagement stuff, right. You've got many, many companies starting to get interested in, hey, we want to do a pilot, we want to get involved. So ConsenSys were doing a lot of those. So they ended up having a lot of those connections and bringing those in together. But yeah, over those months, you really had like, they got a hell of a lot of momentum really, really quick.

SPEAKER_03: So the observation during DevCon 2, when the idea was hatched, was basically that at least at the innovation lab level, a lot of the enterprises were just using and forking their own flavor of Ethereum. They had hacked their own consensus algorithms and security.

SPEAKER_02: And many Go-Ethereum.

SPEAKER_03: Many Geth indeed. We learned later that like a lot of J.P. Morgan's Quorum was initially built by Jeff Wilcke. He had like some kind of...

SPEAKER_02: And that was not announced at the time of DevCon 2. That was still behind the scenes for a few months, but happened just before the EEA started. But yeah, you've got all of this stuff brewing up. I mean, for years earlier, like, if you think of like Eris DB, that became Monax, that became Hyperledger Burrow. So that was a permissioned Ethereum client off POC 5 pre-mainnet, mid 2014, of sticking in Tendermint onto an EVM. So, yeah, like, it was all a bit smashed apart, but it was like the time is right for us to work together because we've all got the same needs.

SPEAKER_03: Us too. We had our own client and it got used in a bunch of the ConsenSys consulting engagements at that time. And we started even then kind of tuning it for enterprise. And so I guess the idea was like, well, maybe enterprises won't adopt if there isn't a standard. Yeah. For all of this new stuff that they need that's above and beyond the base.

SPEAKER_01: Well, Ethereum clients, I think it was even beyond that. Like there was just tons of technical work going on in each individual company siloed to get Ethereum to do what they wanted to do in a private way. So everyone was holding on these things. And what came out of those early conversations at DevCon was, wait, we're all doing similar things. Maybe if we all kind of work together we could do it faster and get this up faster. And that was all around private Ethereum.

SPEAKER_02: And I guess also like a marriage between like kind of customers of these things and builders. Of saying you've got all these kind of startupy kind of companies that are making Ethereum things and you've obviously got big demand from really major enterprises to have this. But it's...

SPEAKER_01: There's...

SPEAKER_02: But yeah, on that standardization side, there was like nothing. And it's like you're all going to get vendor locked, like instantly and it'll all just be arbitrarily different and painful and horrible. So let's try and work out because... Well, at some point as well with Quorum, it was kind of like, are we gonna like collaboratively do code bases as well? Like Hyperledger was another piece into this. Is that a few months earlier I'd spent a bunch of time working on C++ relicensing, the C++ client to get back to Apache 2. So it could have been contributed into Hyperledger and we could have like gathered around that. So the EEA was kind of a backup, I guess, of like, right, we can't have this grand fusion, but there's enough happening on the Ethereum side that we can at least get all the Ethereum pieces together. And then, yeah, I guess it went quite quickly from, okay, we're not... we don't want to straight compete with Hyperledger. Having a shared code base also kind of like screws...

SPEAKER_03: No one wanted to. So I think, let me, in the spirit of spiciness, I think the enterprise users would have preferred a shared code base. And they wanted to commoditize any difference among the startups out of existence so that they could never be vendor locked again. They've had these horrific IBM nightmares, Oracle nightmares over the years and they're just like not, not this time.

SPEAKER_01: We're not going to live through this.

SPEAKER_02: I mean also, you've got that market pressure, right, of Corda coming out, of IBM launching Fabric.

SPEAKER_01: They were worried it would end up...

SPEAKER_03: That kind of, nominally open source but quite proprietary.

SPEAKER_02: So those were both shooting for release in February 2017. So that kind of timeline is like, right, we've got to get our stuff together to be able to do like an Ethereum product thing that can have some hope against IBM and R3 at that time.

SPEAKER_03: Like I remember one of our prominent enterprise users, EEA members said, yeah, they've got a call with 300 people on it every week trying to sell into the big banks, let's say.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_03: And it's funny that all of the, like Ethereum just survived all of this more or less not paying any attention and like the, this competition kind of came in.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I think there was another parallel thing that was happening at that DevCon. Really were like the first like the kind of enterprise use cases we talk about today. Like for example, Santander talked about US dollar on chain which we all recognize as a stablecoin now and...

SPEAKER_03: Tokenized bank deposit.

SPEAKER_00: You see Victor, I think that's a very cool parallel. Like you set the stage pretty well for like where it's coming from and where it started eight years ago. You mentioned Innovation Labs starting to contribute to some codes. We've known like the use cases that blockchain and Ethereum can solve for a long time. But it's only actually now and it's been for probably like for the last year that things have been really changing drastically.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And to take your words for like when you say innovation, it's not innovation labs anymore looking at how they implement blockchain in their ecosystem. It's really like it's actually executive team that say hey, we want to plan what is the production, like how we get into market.

SPEAKER_03: Thankfully like they're scared now so like they better move or else.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I don't know if it's like there's no, there is. But there were some interesting, some interesting talks when we were at Sibos, like the Swift conference. Like yeah, we should mention that because like you were just at Sibos and you're dealing with like what we think of as TradFi institutional players and that's where you have a lot of communication. So like what were your impressions about where they're at with that? Because that's the other side that we talk about.

SPEAKER_00: The digital asset tokenization is definitely a hot topic. Everyone is looking because they know it's happening. They want to be involved and it's more, and now especially like there is less, there is less like regulatory...

SPEAKER_03: The listeners may not know what Sibos is.

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So Sibos is the big Swift conference. Swift, if you're not familiar, is a messaging system that a lot of 11,000 financial institutions around the world use. It's actually a co-op, it's a DAO for TradFi. Kudos to Daniel from ConsenSys who said that to me once.

SPEAKER_03: It is, although it's like, can we buy in now? I feel like...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, the token is having probably a bank license.

SPEAKER_03: The London Metal Exchange is like this too. It's like you want to sign up, you got to like buy a bunch of shares and then there's an annual fee and whatnot and you have to like put someone there all the time.

SPEAKER_02: You have to join the trade guild.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, exactly. And so Sibos conference is the big mecca of payments I would say every year. So you have all the big financial institutions, also like global financial institutions, like clearinghouse settlements, like you know DTCC etc, but also like all the banks and they gather here and there is a lot of conversation. What is very interesting is actually Sibos and Swift is a very like kind of standards organization because what they do is like how we make sure like we send messaging across all of us that everyone is sure is going to understand. And so they used to have a different kind of messaging format and recently now they're migrating to something new which is ISO 20022. Which is, if you want to go and dive deeper into this, this is really like the how every financial institution wants to discuss. They've been working on that spec for a long time and that's how anything that can touch finance from securities to payment, like they have to be qualified.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I think it's good to explain. So like most of finance gets cleared through messaging and it's like, so crypto people are used to like putting a transaction in and then it goes everywhere.

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_03: It's not really like this.

SPEAKER_00: Oh yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, indeed. That's a very key point. Is that the process of what we call delivery versus payment in traditional finance, it's a pretty complex thing because how you make sure like when you deliver the money, the money has been received, that you receive the asset, that everything has been, and it's a kind of a lot of dance because you receive message, you send another one. And it's not like how we used to do where in crypto we submit and it's actually an atomic transaction, which is like just one thing. And when the transaction is complete, you know it's been executed, it's been delivered and all the parties. That is actually, I give you the can. Well, I know you've been giving me like the money. Where actually there is like a little bit dance. Well, I put the can here. Like you see the can that has been moving here, you send the money. And so the blockchain here offers such efficiencies because things that like the T plus 1 or T plus 2 for some of those different exchanges. Now you do it like, well, depending on what chain you're going to deploy between a second to even like less than that.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And also Swift isn't a payments mechanism, right?

SPEAKER_00: No, it's a message.

SPEAKER_02: That's another common...

SPEAKER_03: Let me, I think interject with a...

SPEAKER_02: This specific example.

SPEAKER_03: I think they're biggest in FX, right? So let's say I've got some USD, I want some Euro and we kind of like agree to a USD Euro trade. And so we like, I guess we look up whatever the pair is trading at and I think it's like I send my side of the trade with some unique ID to Swift and you do too. And then Swift like checks if it matches, it charges like seven bucks either way. If it does match, then it'll like tell us that it matched.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I don't think it's actually exactly this way. It's more a Swift offers a type of envelope and a format of envelope and paper and ink that we know how to use and how we're supposed to fill up some forms. Then how we trade those forms between different market participants. It's not much, people like they're gonna be some corresponding banking that's gonna be like locally they can do cash and they're gonna, everyone is gonna take their share.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. It's not moving the asset. It's just, it's like, so I have the USD on my bank list.

SPEAKER_00: On your bank talking to each other in a secure and compliant way for, because it's also, oh, you send that, you have to send like some specific messaging for like compliance that, then I send another one, say hey I checked there's information and...

SPEAKER_02: You know a bunch of like local jurisdiction specific.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. A lot of different handshakes.

SPEAKER_01: You know I like the way someone described it's like a funny TCP handshake. Yeah. It's sort of like what they're doing is tracking the transfers but no money is actually moving. And then they have a list of IOUs. So like when I send a Swift transaction from like let's say I send a hundred dollars to you in France and I go to my bank, I put in a hundred dollars. The money doesn't go anywhere. You're just...

SPEAKER_03: Oh yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So I have to write USD off. They at the end of the day...

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: RTGS, they're gonna do like the transfer actually. Exactly.

SPEAKER_03: That's like a different messaging.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: If you research and I'm not a Swift expert but I have learned that the last couple of months, I've done like a little bit more like deep dive. And it's fascinating because there is such a huge dance between two transfer of money because you have the money in your bank account, but then actually central bank money. Then you have also the deposit money. Those what you call M0, M1, M2. And so all of that is pretty complex. And then we're just talking about payment here, talking about securities or those other financial instruments that you can exchange. Also using blockchain in a very efficient way. But using stablecoin you can make everything super simple. And also one misconception maybe I would love to mention is like the, we talked about stablecoin and CBDCs.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: They actually exactly the same thing. It's just in a different context. A CBDC is a stablecoin for central bank.

SPEAKER_02: And it's just the issuer.

SPEAKER_00: It's just the issuer is not the same as, we never gonna retouch like CBDCs because this is like the money, the money of banks. If you say. But almost I think from a technical level it's very like almost like a copy paste of the same contract. The mechanism, it's not but we create like a whole different language and terminology for that. But they're actually very similar and funny fact those CBDCs they've been doing, I think the baby needed to grow. Like said DevCon 2, so it was a 2 years old kid Ethereum and we were like hey come in here. You can manage like the most critical infrastructure of the planet which is our money and how we do trade and you can do all of this. And I think like the Ethereum Foundation I have to give them credit like they, yes for a long time they were saying hey guys, you're not considering the enterprise everything. But I think they did the right thing because they protected that baby so it could grow and it become like, it's more mature. It's more than 10 years. It's still like not even a teenager, like the analogy was like with human is going to take some limits. But we had a point now where we have a technology and Ethereum is really a capacity to answer all the challenges that are facing, that we're blocking with institution to adopt which is, while scalability, privacy like composability and interoperability like the four points that you had in the ARC paper from Circle. And now we have this, just last week zkSync announced up to 15,000 TPS and there is some new thing that almost every week going on. So we really like now the technology when it can look say well I need to make sure this is private. I need to make sure this is going to be executed in a seamless way. Also the decentralization it's more about the way they look at it is more like the vendor locking. I would say the best analogy is that you want to make sure the infrastructure you rely on is going to be able to absorb your activity but also be resilient enough. This we still have some work because it's definitely and I understand the perspective of institution to deploy on it like public infrastructure. At first when Wikipedia showed up like 20, 25 years ago, something like that I think. I mean I remember I was in my engineering college. I was at the board and we were talking about having wiki for doing some articles. And they were like those very academic guys said this is unacceptable. It's not the whole French accent and this is unacceptable. Whenever I'm going to do this, anyone can put any information. It's not trust.

SPEAKER_01: To be clear, you are French. Yeah. You are allowed to.

SPEAKER_00: You're allowed. And so, and but they were in French like they were very like protecting this. And at that time I said, well, we cannot trust something that's being built collectively like this. But now we know you have to take a grain of salt. But it's actually much more accepted, like those are like reliable source of information and that you can have things that are being built publicly that actually very resilient.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, sorry, I was just gonna ask like, but like there's always this like gap between what traditional institutions understand about like, we all understand what's been capable for a really, really long time. But are there still gaps or do you think that's been closed now? Like is the baby grown up fully or, but like, but even like when the capability is there, there's still like a knowledge gap. I think sometimes.

SPEAKER_00: Well, let me put it this way. There is about, if you combine all the different type of money, $123 trillion of cash around the world, right. 300 billions are on chain, right. So the numbers talk for itself. We're very early. So there is people like they can, I think we still have like a lot of work to do in terms of education. But by education I mean really talking from product perspective. What business problem I can solve for you, how it's going to be done, what is going to be the maintenance after, how like how you're going to deal with very specific use cases. And so you can have some teams that already have an understanding what you can achieve. But we still need to provide I think as an ecosystem more structuring who you can work with, the different vendors, what services they can do, where they can help, what's the type of contract you're going to have after. And really giving that overall perspective of a new entrant in the market. And so some of them, they understand very well and they have already like some pretty detailed question, even like asking me, power Riadne we need to increase like the contract size from 24 to 48 kilobytes. And we have some Stack Overflow issue like well known.

SPEAKER_03: So the stack depth limit was always a problem.

SPEAKER_00: And so there is some of them it's this but then some other ones in this more product, they're going to ask me okay why should I go on an L2, what is the L1? What does it mean? And what about those chains. What are the primitives, explaining like, well if you build on any L2s you actually going to choose maybe one vendor in some way but you can completely move your asset free among all the ecosystem, the wallets are going to be the same. A lot of things are going to be equivalent that you don't have to rebuild. And so those are things you need to explain. Some of them maybe people they're going to say well what is this? This is just like some scammy or something like that. I think you can find all the layers. But now people they also they see the potential of what you can do with digital assets tokenization. And for people who are a little bit looking around I'm very excited to see what's going to happen in the next six to 12 months because GENIUS Act was signed July 15 or something like this, Stablecoin Act. I think it's still a bit ongoing but so now we like the, and we can also hear that like there's really companies from either direction say okay how we're going to implement this. The fintech is also moving so they're, the fact that they're building their L... Even if they're building the L1 I wish they would do some L2s and my door will always be open when you want to consider that there is a pretty great tool that can help but that's going to push the market and from financial institution to really adopting this. There is an organization like DTCC, the biggest clearinghouse in the world. All the securities in the world basically are being cleared over there. They released an incredible product like 4 months ago in April. The great collateral where they have a collection of hundreds of smart contracts that allows you to clear and to make some margin call and collateral management from different jurisdiction which is a fantastic use case when you, you see, I'm not a collateral management expert but I understand the value like how this unlocks. Like you actually have something that you can take from your bank in Japan that you're going to post for something in the US because you have a market event and this is something you would not even imagine before and now you can do it and it's like compliant. It's actually like it's legal and then that can unlock so much efficiencies. And so that's in the next like 12 months. That's going to be like huge game changer.

SPEAKER_01: So it sounds like the lid has been lifted off and there's a ton of demand but it's like walking down the path to supply that demand. That's the part that people are figuring out right? Like, is that right?

SPEAKER_00: Like I think the, it's such a very transformative technology for how those businesses operate. There is also how I'm going to make money.

SPEAKER_01: Okay. So there's a fear element to it, right?

SPEAKER_00: It's like, well now I can have like checkout like, yeah, I mean I'm a PSP provider.

SPEAKER_03: So let me ask you this. So in the early days it felt like there was a focus on more like back office use cases. Like, yeah, how do I move the collateral from like my Japan regional branch to my, whatever.

SPEAKER_02: Business process improvements.

SPEAKER_03: Business process improvements. And I felt that there eventually became, and I think this started like 2020, 2021, a shift for big corporations wanting top line use cases like Nike was the first to like sell a ton of NFTs. And then you're seeing like, I think like the digital asset treasuries are a kind of genius way for a token to like, the company doesn't have to IPO but like there could be a token and there can be something that provides the traditional protections of equity that's publicly traded. And then you didn't, you could just leave this part sort of where it was and somehow there's kind of like a merger going on and this is creating good top line revenue for investment banks and etc. So like is your sense that people want the efficiency to compete or like are they starting to think about it as like a new revenue line or transformed revenue line or something?

SPEAKER_00: Well that's, that's a billion trillion dollar question right there. I don't have like the answer. What I could say is I see, I see how like I think if you look at operational optimization, it's more than that. If your capital flows more seamlessly, you make more money in a financial float. So the more you have a flow of your money easy, the more you're going to be able to make some, because you're gonna unlock some capital improvements. Yet I think and from like conversation I've seen and where like the, still don't have like the golden to say hey that's gonna remix a little bit of like all the different people and intermediaries and people working because if you, if you suddenly have something that is being done a much more efficient way, well some different intermediates they might have like to rethink of where the way of doing their business. This is not going to happen from one day to another. What I can say is that because we're going to have those new form of working with digital assets that's going to more like being a golden era for opportunities to build pretty fantastic product and the people that understand pretty well the ethos of the Ethereum ecosystem and also blockchain in general and like some operation in traditional finance and be able to bridge those two. You're going to be able to bring like some amazing amazing product. And that's what we see a little bit more with convergence. You know of Aave that is doing like a collateral product with Horizon and unlocking, you have like Figure, you have Spiko, you have some, some of like how as, as we're going to have like now some assets that are on chain that maybe you can loan and you can collateralize and you can borrow money and you can have some liquidity from in front of those assets while being the actual. And also like I want to stress like we do, we say RWAs. RWAs. RWAs. There is a lot of, we need probably to find some new language because...

SPEAKER_01: There is, you know how I feel about that. I think the RWA term is so broad.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, this can be RWA. Yeah it does get. And I can also take a picture of my I guess my bank account and say hey this is a tokenization of my bank account. And so there is RWAs but most of them they actually kind of elaborate IOUs and not like. And now we're moving towards more and more having some standards and like things like the, it's the legal tent.

SPEAKER_03: Like yeah you want the native issue.

SPEAKER_00: The token is the, is the legal claim to the assets.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: And that's when this happens and when like focusing on that, that's going to unlock some pretty incredible things because the, and you connect this with DeFi maybe with some, you're gonna always need some form of AML KYC and everything. Like the DeFi, like the, like we, there's none for the last year. They're probably going to have like two of those but once you connect this I think that's going to be pretty incredible.

SPEAKER_01: But how do the institutions feel about like, obviously as the head of the EEA and you feel strongly about Ethereum too, right? Like the Ethereum ecosystem broadly of L1. Like how do they feel about that? Do they see any other, like we know that Ripple has tried to attract that interest for a really long time. Like are they kind of sold on Ethereum at this point or are they looking, are they still kind of needing to be convinced?

SPEAKER_00: I've heard like several executives at presentation at Sibos saying hey, Ethereum is the standard. EVM is the standard. This is the ecosystem. Having said that and as decision makers, they also want to make sure like they keep the door open and not being locked. So they move progressively. 60% of the stablecoin issuance is on Ethereum I think probably 85 to 90% of all RWA. It's the same, some similar statistics about DeFi activities, that's like Electric Capital. Yeah you can see the graph like three times more than any other ecosystem in terms of like builders and everything. So that's the most radiant and advanced ecosystem in terms of research on every facet. And so that's, they know, they recognize but it doesn't mean that we need to keep educating to keep like right, working with the EF for instance like they've been incredible work for the last few months of really like packaging the message in a better way that can be more digestible. But there's more like some work for instance like the protocol team, they're already addressing so many of the fear like can have some different like digital asset manager in financial institution. But how we bring that message to the right people, package it in a way that it's easy to understand. That's some of the work that is being done as we speak and that's going to really help continuing solidifying that dominance position. But to also answer your question, like some of those institutions they say hey we want to be multi-chain. We want to look at everything which I think it's absolutely fair and I would do the same if I were in their shoes. So, okay, well they have some different assessment criteria and they say well we're going to take this chain, this chain, this chain, this chain and then we'll see.

SPEAKER_02: I mean go back to beyond EVM. I mean you've obviously got competition between Ethereum and other EVM flavors. What is the competition outside of that? Because I know there's, you've obviously got competition within that. But...

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: What do you hear?

SPEAKER_02: Institutions doing non-EVM things as well.

SPEAKER_03: Just like Canton is around. I don't know what they're using. Like do institutions use Solana at all? Well, I know, but does DA still have its own like big proprietary-ish stack?

SPEAKER_02: It's not proprietary anymore, but it's, yeah, well, Hedera. Using Hedera.

SPEAKER_03: What do you hear?

SPEAKER_02: Competitive.

SPEAKER_00: Okay. Canton is probably the one, the most advanced in terms of like connection with the rest of the ecosystem. And I would say like not the rest, but the traditional finance they have, they have like a way it's structured though. It's something I still don't completely understand. You can be a validator, have some tokens that they're going to exchange on some private market and so some form of revenue and then they have already like that. It's a consortium, like it's a Quorum V2, I would say. And they've been able to bring it into their governance like a lot of the different financial institution.

SPEAKER_01: So.

SPEAKER_00: But once again, and if you ask me, I'm biased of course, but this is an ecosystem. Like yes, the Canton code is open source and everything but, well, you still building on a technology that is not, not super like very like there's not a lot of people, like when are you going to be like the CIO of a company and you need to have some maintenance or something. It's going to be what like 20 guys in a country that can do this, some work on this. And so that's the way I look at this. But like the, I think like Solana, I'm not sure with the institution.

SPEAKER_03: I don't hear anything institutional from Solana, but it seems popular nonetheless.

SPEAKER_01: Oddly enough like Ripple has been trying to do this for a long time, but I don't hear them brought up in the conversation that much.

SPEAKER_02: Nobody ever used Ripple.

SPEAKER_00: I've been in blockchain not as long as you guys, but really since 2019. And I spent like almost four years at ChainSafe, very authentic like builders like crypto native protocol development and I've been to conferences with the engineers and I asked them in a very candid way say have you ever built on Ripple or on some of their. And I had conversation with the engineers at ChainSafe and we had some polls and we had some conversation in the Slack. I remember and no one really came up with some very smart.

SPEAKER_02: Just got an infinite war chest for marketing. Well and lobbying.

SPEAKER_01: I mean at one point one of the Siboses I went to years and years ago, right, Ripple was supposed to have a huge booth and like I guess Swift decided oh they're too much of a competitor so they kicked them out. And this wasn't...

SPEAKER_03: They were calling themselves the Swift killer.

SPEAKER_01: Right. For a while they decided like Ripple decided, we're just going to run our own conference in parallel with Sibos. They put a parallel conference and Vitalik was speaking at their conference and I...

SPEAKER_02: Remember at the Ripple one.

SPEAKER_01: At the Ripple one and I remember they had buses in from the Sibos like taking you to where their new conference was. And I remember like seeing Vitalik like ran across like looking for this conference because like it was in this new place and like we were all trying to, I remember like waving him like over here. So it's, it's, quarter, people still using Corda R3, right.

SPEAKER_00: Like it's been bought out by Solana. Corda is Solana now.

SPEAKER_02: I don't think really. I don't think they would approach it in those terms. I think it's a partnership and a collaboration.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: That we're not.

SPEAKER_02: Absolutely. Absolutely. They weren't bought by...

SPEAKER_01: Not part of. But yes, but I mean I...

SPEAKER_02: Will say we are using Fabric still.

SPEAKER_00: Well yes, behind the scenes like the Fabric is still like very present. I think central banks and those type of more very close environment, even I'm not sure BIS, we know Bank of International Settlement which is a, for those who don't know it's like 40 different international banks that work together to optimize I would say like the collaboration and exchange. But they had like a Project Agora that they started a couple of months ago. Those are like institution where it takes like much longer time.

SPEAKER_02: I think they're starting a new project.

SPEAKER_00: That's not the same Agora but I would imagine like maybe they were having some POCs before. I know some few central banks they run using Fabric, the Hyperledger Fabric.

SPEAKER_02: Probably like the asbestos isn't it? It's just going to take years to work that out.

SPEAKER_01: You need people in suits to like. I will say I, I think we're almost at 45 minutes. Riadne's been very generous with his time. I think we asked do you have any final thoughts that you want to share?

SPEAKER_00: Actually on Fabric, I know like IBM is working on a bridge between Fabric to main to, it's called Fabric X.

SPEAKER_02: Okay.

SPEAKER_00: To Ethereum so, well you can see that online, right?

SPEAKER_02: Well one of that big sell at New York Blockchain Week in 2018 was there was that EVM integration right that they did.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah they did a channel or something.

SPEAKER_02: Appreciate JS or whatever that they did do this munching together and that was using Burrow, right, because you've got the Burrow for, before Besu and that was the continuation of that Eris DB Monax and you went. That was never mainnet compatible though. But there was that Go EVM within Hyperledger under the same licensing. So they could, they could wham those together and I mean that's, that's seven years ago. So yeah I'm sure that they need to have an even better EVM story these days.

SPEAKER_00: So if to answer your question and like EVM and Ethereum is really the standard as everyone, that's what they're saying. Like you go through like some different stages. You have like the Chief Innovation Officer of like Swift and some different institutions they understand that they're like that and that's what they say. I was really everywhere I went on all those different panels. We had a panel at 8:30 on permissionless versus private network. It was hosted by Applied Blockchain, a member of the EEA. There was like Citibank, Linux Foundation, Decentralized Trust, UBX and me and it was the, we were full. There were people standing up and there was the Swift Innovation Officers, some other banks that came to talk to us. So people, they understand Ethereum is definitely seen as like the standard and the place where you want to build because that's where you have access to the most equity, the most users, the most vibrant DeFi ecosystem, which is something that is getting closer, I think and say, well, maybe there is some way to make some money here. I don't know exactly how, but there is some potential. So I think the future is very bright for us and I think that...

SPEAKER_02: Ties very nicely back to the start of the conversation and about the thoughts for the EEA and so on. Was something that Jeremy Millar said in the opening speech on the opening day was think of this as being like a router, an internet intranet. There's no reason why suitably modular code bases shouldn't serve all of these use cases, public and private. And what we did not want to happen was, and I remember being driven very much by this was saying let's not have arbitrarily different code bases for these different things because we can't be asked. Having that conversation and making the effort to try and bridge those worlds. And that was really coming from that Fabric and Corda competition of these big enterprises basically being told, you Ethereum guys have got to get your stuff together or we're going to get mandated to use this other stuff. And it doesn't matter what you want, it's like the spending will have been spent and it's never coming back. So I think it's, to my mind it's like really superb to see where we are. That's what we were thinking. That was kind of the goal is that this can be a standard for everything. And yeah, things were immature and maybe you needed to be doing consortium chains and you needed to take these baby steps on the way and wait for the tech to catch up. But really it's like this can be the answer for everything.

SPEAKER_02: So yeah, and I think that's where we are.

SPEAKER_00: And we're talking more and more, the Ethereum Foundation has done an incredible job. They have like an enterprise team also like they're having conversation with everyone and they can have like, they have access to all the different leaders. And this has been very pretty fantastic. And so the more we discuss about this and say, hey, there is no CEO of Ethereum, it's not a private company, there is no CEO of Internet. They all use Linux, right? So that's something that is like catching up more and more and the more we're going, that's also like the mission at what we do at EEA, going to have this conversation or doing events, like bringing some people together from like a few events that we do and we try to really mix like DeFi, traditional finance institution, like pure Ethereum players and have all those people talking together. That's how we make that moving forward.

SPEAKER_01: Well on that note I think we'll wrap up but where can people find more about you and EEA?

SPEAKER_00: Well it the website of, we are present on all the social media, like the website is like entethalliance.org, we have the same handle like on Twitter, on LinkedIn. I'm also on LinkedIn and Twitter and try to post often some articles and some insights and there's some more work that I'm going to put together in a couple of weeks around RWAs and everything and also always looking for some large institution that would like to collaborate on some writing pieces. Yeah so we can really put some like thought leadership and helping explaining what's being done and I think bridging the Ethereum world with traditional finance is also like something that we're pretty excited to do in a couple of weeks. We'll be also in Singapore Fintech Week next month, in DevCon in Argentina and we'll be also in Abu Dhabi for Finance Week.

SPEAKER_01: Cool. And Bob, where can people find you?

SPEAKER_02: So yeah I'm on Twitter, same as my name, Bob Summerwill with a W-I-L-L, not Ville, not Tom O'Will.

SPEAKER_01: Not the German spelling. Karen K.

SPEAKER_03: James Lubin on X, YouTube, etc.

SPEAKER_01: And you can find me on X at VicVic, the number 4, W-O-N-G. Thank you for joining us for our first in person roundtable. Thanks again. That's awesome. Thanks for coming. Take care.

SPEAKER_00: That was pretty cool to be in Bushwick again.