SPEAKER_00: I use Restream. We try to use something and it streams on Twitter, I think YouTube and LinkedIn at the same time.

SPEAKER_03: So we're using StreamYard too. We're using StreamYard and I'm just double checking.

SPEAKER_01: We have been screwing around with different tools trying to find anything that seems a bit... Not all perfect, yeah. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: I'll share the one. I don't know if you've tried this one, but this one looks pretty cool. Pretty great.

SPEAKER_01: Because you're thinking, there must be good software for this, right? It's such a common need. Isn't there just an answer that just works?

SPEAKER_00: But the thing is, those platforms, they're not built with interoperability in mind. They don't like it. They want to track you in. Yeah, exactly. X especially. That's against our vision. On X, there isn't even a means to download the bloody audio. Yeah, it's... Why would you want to download it? You know, like that's something, you know, I guess the next step in maybe like... You want to use it somewhere else? Are you seeing somebody else? Be able to own your data, you know, in all those platforms. Even own a query or just access, you know. Something I love about Google is like, I can go, I can activate, you know, like the tracking, you know, But at least I can go in and say, what did you do that week? I went in front of that restaurant or that store. It was pretty nice. And I can go and see and check. I have access to that. It can be helpful. But most of the things, they have like thousands of data, but they don't even share it with you.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: I find it quite, quite well. 501.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, yeah.

SPEAKER_03: We are live. So we are live. No, no, no, I'm ready. No, but that was a good call-in show, right? So we have a very special guest today, but a special format because all of us for Jane Jo Live in real life.

SPEAKER_01: In the same room. In the same room. Amazing.

SPEAKER_03: And you are a special guest. Do you want to show?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Sure. So, yeah, we have here today with us Redwan Meslen. Yes. Meslen, who is the executive director of the EA, the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, which all of us at this table have had a hand and a part in over the years. Healthy run.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, exactly.

SPEAKER_01: So, yeah. It's eight years now. Since 2017, yeah. February 28th was the launch date on the 28th.

SPEAKER_02: There was pre-work solidly before, at least three months, maybe more.

SPEAKER_01: There were meetings I was part of in December and January. Those were the first big meetings with whatever, 30, 40 people, crazy amounts. But yeah, it really started probably at DevCon 2, really. It did. Those were the discussions. So that was Shanghai, October.

SPEAKER_02: There was the kickoff meeting at the J.P. Morgan office, which was pretty big. They were the closed-door meetings at Microsoft.

SPEAKER_01: Right. So that public launch was February. It was February. But December, there was an internal one, and then J.P. Morgan...

SPEAKER_03: was in January 2017 but but yeah like a lot of those initial contacts have happened at devcon2 yep in october the previous year well in the devcon2 oh yes yeah so like basically uh basically uh there was a lot of conversations there about figuring out how to bring on enterprises too and there were a lot of interested parties and yeah like The group of people, which was I think about six people that were interested, met at like a Starbucks just off site. And that was sort of the idea formation thing about the.

SPEAKER_01: And then Matt spoke of NewCo held a little bar side event as well, which we have some technical issues.

SPEAKER_03: Oh, okay. Hold on a second. I'm just going to push James to tell everybody to go to YouTube.

SPEAKER_01: We have a technical issue, everybody.

SPEAKER_03: I will fix that. Oh, did I? I messed up the Twitter. You did a bad one. Yeah, I did a bad one. So everyone, please join us on YouTube.

SPEAKER_02: Space is at 5 a.m.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_02: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: But yeah, Matt spoke, held a little event at one of the bars upstairs, which I went to, and there were various others there. I don't know if you went to that one as well.

SPEAKER_03: I didn't go to that one. So I think the main thing was that, yeah, so I think the main thing, I'm going to try and fix this right now on Twitter. Live technical support, see if I can resolve it right now.

SPEAKER_01: If not, I am.

SPEAKER_03: I did choose a...

SPEAKER_01: But also parallel in that, because I was still working for the Ethereum Foundation at the time, was that there was like an enterprise Slack set up there, which was actually started by Vitalik, who afterwards said people kept badgering him about enterprise stuff. That's right. So at some point, he just dumped the ball in a Slack and ran away. That was the technique. so that was a not quite the same group it was a larger group that's slightly different uh nuka was part of that luca was part of that um also um by the way we should introduce ourselves yeah i'm boxing will so i'm head of ecosystem at Stratum Cut.

SPEAKER_02: Chairman James Lubin, CEO of Blockups. Victor Wong. Creators of Stratum Recon.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. And Victor Wong, Chief Product Officer of Blockups.

SPEAKER_02: That's it. Sorry, back. But yeah, Amos as well. Do you remember that? Yeah. Taiwan. Taiwan. We should check in on. I haven't thought of Amos until, in like several years until the moment.

SPEAKER_01: So the interesting thing about what they were doing, so that was like some Taiwan bank consortium thing. Yep. But then they, they did like work on like Chinese cryptography and stuff like they've got differing requirements. Right. Um, and the master chain, which was in Russia, that was like a, a, a spare bank thing. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: because you you have uh you know i was not at the year at that time and so it's very interesting for me to you know what were the hopes and the excitement that you see you know you were part of those early conversations this was created yeah i think companies it's like a pretty it was a pretty big event you know yeah as you mentioned you know like gp morgan and everything all those big names coming into the ecosystem And what were the hopes and really like the overall like atmosphere, you know, when the EA was created like eight years ago?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, well, I mean, so, I mean, consensus were very critical as well because, you know, they were doing a load of the enterprise like engagement stuff, right? You've got many, many companies like starting to get interested in, hey, you know, we want to do a pilot. We want to get involved. So ConsenSys were doing a lot of those. So they ended up having a lot of those connections and bringing those in together. But yeah, you know, over those months, you really have like, they've got a hell of a lot of momentum. Yeah, really, really quick.

SPEAKER_02: So the observation during DevCon 2 when the idea was hatched was basically that at least at the innovation lab level, a lot of the enterprises were just using and forking their own flavor of Ethereum. They had, like, hacked their own consensus algorithms and security and... Many guests. Many guests, indeed. We learned later that, like... like a lot of JP Morgan's forum was initially built by Jeff Wilkie.

SPEAKER_01: He had like some kind of. And that was not announced at the time of DevCon 2. That was still behind the scenes for a few months, but happened just before the EA started. But, but yeah, you, you, You've got all of this stuff brewing up, I mean, for years earlier. Like, if you think of, like, ErisDB that became Monax, that became Hyperledger Burrow. So that was a permissioned Ethereum client off POC5 pre-mainnet, mid-2014, of sticking in Tendermint onto an EVF. So, yeah, like, you know, it was all a bit smished apart. But it was like the time is right for us to work together because we've all got the same needs.

SPEAKER_02: Us too. We had our own client and they got used in a bunch of the consensus consulting engagements at that time. And we started even then kind of tuning it for enterprise. And so I guess the idea was like, well, maybe enterprises won't adopt if there isn't a standard for all of this new stuff that they need that's above and beyond the base standard.

SPEAKER_03: I think it was even beyond that. There was just tons of technical work going on in each individual company's silo to get Ethereum to do what they wanted to do in a private way. So everyone was like bolting on these things. what came out of that those early conversations at devcon was wait like while doing similar things maybe if we all kind of work together we could do it faster and get this up faster and that was all around private everyone and i guess also like a marriage between like

SPEAKER_01: kind of customers of these things and builders yeah of saying you've got all these kind of startup kind of companies that are making ethereum things and you've obviously got big demand from really major enterprises to have this but it's there's but yeah on that standardization side there was like nothing and it's like you're all going to get vendor locked like instantly and it'll all just be arbitrarily different and painful and horrible so let's try and work out because well at some point as well with with quorum it was kind of like you know are we going to like collaboratively do code bases as well uh like you know hyperledger was another was another piece into this is that is that a few months earlier i've spent a bunch of time working on c plus plus relicensing c plus plus client to get back to apache 2 so it could have been contributed into hyperledger and we could have gathered around that, that fucked up. So the EA was kind of a backup, I guess, of like, right, we can't have this grand fusion, but there's enough happening on the Ethereum side that we can at least get all the Ethereum pieces together. And then, yeah, I guess it went quite quickly from, okay, we don't want to straight compete with Hyperledger having a shared code base also kind of like screws up the companies.

SPEAKER_02: So I think, let me, you know, in the spirit of spiciness, I think the enterprise users would have preferred a shared code base, and they wanted to commoditize any difference among the startups out of existence so that they could never be vendor locked again. They've had these horrific IBM nightmares, Oracle nightmares over the years. And they're just like, not this time. We're not going to live through this.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, also, you have got that market pressure, right, of Corda coming out, of IBM launching Fabric.

SPEAKER_02: They were worried it would end up that kind of Nominally open source, but quite proprietary.

SPEAKER_01: So those were both shooting for release in February 2017. So it's that kind of timeline is like, right, we've got to get our shit together to be able to do like an Ethereum product thing that can have some hope against IBM and R3.

SPEAKER_02: DA at that time, I remember one of our prominent enterprise user EA members said, you know, yeah, they've got a call with, you know, 300 people on it every week trying to sell into the big banks, let's say. Right. And it's funny that all of the, like, Ethereum just survived all of this more or less not paying any attention and, like, you know, this competition kind of came in.

SPEAKER_03: Well, I think there was another parallel thing that was happening. At that DEVCON event, really were like the first, like the kind of enterprise use cases we talked about today. Like for example, Santander talked about, you know, US dollar on chain, which we all recognize as a stable coin now.

SPEAKER_00: But you see, Victor, I think that's a very cool parallel. Like you set the stage pretty well for like, you know, where it's coming from. Yeah. And where it started, you mentioned, you know, innovation labs, like starting to contribute to some codes. We've known like the use cases that blockchain and Ethereum can solve for a long time. But it's only actually now and it's been for probably like for the last year that things have been really changing drastically. And to take, you know, like your words for when you say innovation labs. it's not innovation lab anymore looking at how they implement blockchain in their ecosystem. It's really like executive team that say, hey, we want to plan what is the production, like how we get it to market.

SPEAKER_02: Thankfully, like they're scared now.

SPEAKER_00: So like they better move or out. I don't know if it's like, there is, you know, there is, but there was some interesting, some interesting talk, you know, like when we were at Sibos, like the Swift conference.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, we should mention that because like, you were just at Sibos and you're dealing with like what we think of as ShredFi institutional players and that's you know where you have a lot of communication so like what were your impressions about where they're at with that because that's the other side that we talk about the digital asset tokenization is definitely a hot topic everyone is looking because um

SPEAKER_00: They know it's happening. They want to be involved. And it's more, and now, especially like there is less, there is less like regulatory, you know. The listeners may not know what Sibos is. Oh, yeah. So Sibos is the big Swift conference. Swift, if you're not familiar, it's a messaging system that a lot of 11,000 financial institutions around the world, it's actually a co-op. It's a DAO for Trash Buy. Okay. Kudos to Danielle from ConsenSys who said that to me once. It is a doubt.

SPEAKER_02: Although it's like, can we buy in now? I feel like, you know, it's not. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: The token is having probably a bank license.

SPEAKER_02: The London Metal Exchange is like this too. It's like you want to sign up, you got to like buy a bunch of shares and like, you know, then there's an annual fee and whatnot. And you have to like put someone there all the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yes. Exactly. And so that big conference is a big make-out of payments, I would say, every year. So you have all the big financial institutions, also global financial institutions like clearing house, settlements, like your work leader, etc. But also like all the banks. And they gather here and there is a lot of conversation. What is very interesting is actually Saibos and Swift. is a very kind of standard organization. Because what they do is how we make sure we send messaging across all of us that everyone is sure is going to understand. And so they used to have a different kind of messaging format, and recently now they're migrating to something new, which is ISO 222. Okay. Which is, if you want to go and dive deeper into this, this is really how every financial institution wants to discuss. They've been working on that spec for a long time, and that's how anything that can touch finance from securities to payment, like they have to be codified.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I think it's good to explain. So, like, most of finance gets cleared through messaging. And it's like, so crypto people are used to like putting a transaction in and then it goes everywhere.

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_02: It's not really like this.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, indeed. That's a very key point is that process of what we call delivery versus payment in traditional finance. It's a pretty complex thing because how you make sure when you deliver the money, the money has been received, that you receive the asset, that everything has been... And it's a lot of dance because you receive message, you send another one. And it's not like how we used to do where in crypto we submit and it's actually an atomic transaction, which is just one thing. And when the transaction is complete, you know it's been executed, it's been delivered, and all the parties that it's actually, you know, I give you the can, well, I know you've been giving me, like, the money exactly, you know, where actually there is, like, a little bit dense, well, I put the can here, like, you see the can that has been moving here, like, you send the money, and so the blockchain here offers such a efficiencies because things that were like you know like the t plus one or t plus two for some of some of those different exchange now you you do it like well depending on what chain you're going to deploy yeah between a second to even like less than that yeah and also swift

SPEAKER_02: isn't a payments mechanism right no it's not it's a message that's another that's another comment let me i think interject with this specific example i think they're biggest in fx right yes so let's say i've got some usd i want some euro and we kind of like agree to a usd euro trade and so we like i guess we look up whatever the pair is trading at and i think it's like i send my side of the trade with some unique id to swift and you do too, and then Swift checks if it matches, it charges $7 either way. If it does match, then it'll tell us that it matched.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I don't think it's actually exactly this way. It's more a swift offer type of envelope and a format of envelope and paper and ink that we know how to use and how we're supposed to fill up some forms. Then how we trade those forms between different market participants. It's not much, you know, like the people, like they're going to be some, you know, corresponding banking that's going to be like locally taking your cash and they're going to, everyone is going to take their share.

SPEAKER_02: It's not moving the asset. It's just, it's like, I have the USD on my bank list. You've got the euro on your bank list.

SPEAKER_00: Talking to each other in a secure and compliant way. Because it's also, oh, he sent that, you have to send some specific messaging for compliance. Then I send another one, say, hey, I checked, there's all the information.

SPEAKER_01: A bunch of local jurisdiction-specific Yeah, it's like a lot of different handshakes.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I think the way someone described it to me, it's sort of like what they're doing is tracking the transfers, but no money is actually moving. And then they have a list of IOUs. So like when I send a Swift transaction from like, let's say I send $100 to you in France and I go to my bank, I put in $100. The money doesn't

SPEAKER_00: go anywhere they're just oh yeah so the my debate i have to write the usd off the net at the end of the day rtgs that's going to do like the transfer actually exactly that's like a different messaging yeah if you research and i'm not a swift expert but i have to learn that the last couple of months you know i've done like a little bit more like deep dive and it's fascinating because there is such a huge dance you know between you know like two transfer of money Because you have the money in your bank account, but then actually central bank money, then you have like the deposit money. So like those, like what you call like M0, M1, M2. And so all of that is pretty complex. And then we're just talking about payment here, you know, talking about, you know, securities or like those other like financial instruments that you can exchange also using blockchain in a very efficient way. But that's, you know, using stablecoin, you can make everything super simple. And also one misconception maybe I would love to mention is like, you know, like we talked about stablecoin and CBDCs.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: They actually exactly the same thing, but just in a different context. A CBDC is a stablecoin for a central bank.

SPEAKER_01: It's just the issuer.

SPEAKER_00: It's just the issuer is not the same. We're never going to really touch CBDCs because this is like the money of banks, if you say. But almost, I think, from a technical level, it's almost like a copy-paste of the same contract mechanism. But we create a whole different language and terminology for that. But they're actually very similar. And funny fact, Those CBDCs, they've been doing, you know, like the, I think the baby needed to grow, you know, like you said, DEF CON 2. So it was a two years old kid, Ethereum. And we were like, hey, come in here. You can manage like the most critical infrastructure of the planet, which is our money and how we do trade. And you can do all of this. And I think like the Ethereum Foundation, I have to give them credit like they did. Yes, for a long time, they were saying, hey, guys, you're not considering the enterprise and everything. But I think they did the right thing because they protected that baby. So it could grow. And now we're at an age of it's more mature. It's more than 10 years. It's still not even a teenager. The analogy with human is going to take some limits. But we are at a point now where we have a technology and Ethereum is really a capacity to answer all the challenges that are facing, you know, that we're blocking with institutions without, which is, you know, well, scalability, privacy, Composability and interprobability. The four points that you had in the Arc paper from Circle, and now we have this. Just last week, ZKSync announced up to 15,000 TPS, and there is some new thing that almost every week going on. We really like now that the technology, when it looks at, well, I need to make sure like this is private. I need to make sure like this is a, this is going to be like be executed in a seamless way. Also like the decentralization, it's more about the way they look at it. It's more like the vendor locking. I would say the best analogy is that you want to make sure the infrastructure you rely on is going to be able to absorb your activity, but also be resilient enough. This, we still have some work because it's definitely, and I understand the perspective of institution to deploy on a public infrastructure. At first, when Wikipedia showed up 20, 20, 25 years ago, something like that, I mean, I remember I was at my engineering college I was at the board and we were talking about having Wiki, you know, for doing some articles. And they were like, that's very academic guy said, this is, uh, this is unacceptable. This is unacceptable. Whenever I'm going to do this, this is anyone to put any information. It's not trust to be clear.

SPEAKER_03: You are friends.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. You're allowed to, you're allowed to. So. But they were in French. They were very like, you know, and protecting this. And at that time, I said, well, we cannot trust, you know, something that's being built collectively like this. But now we know you have to take a grain of salt, but it's actually much more accepted, you know, like that those are like reliable source of information and that you can have things that are being built publicly that are actually very resilient.

SPEAKER_03: Sorry, I was just going to ask, like, but, like, there's always this, like, gap between what traditional institutions understand about, like, we all understand what's been capable for a really, really long time. But are there still gaps? Or do you think that's been closed now? Like, it's maybe grown up fully? But, like, but even if, even, like, when the capability is there, there's still, like, A knowledge gap, I think, sometimes.

SPEAKER_00: Well, let me put it this way. There is about, if you combine all the different types of money, $123 trillion of cash around the world.

SPEAKER_03: Right, right.

SPEAKER_00: $300 billion are on chain.

SPEAKER_03: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So... The numbers talk for itself. We're very early. So there's people like they can, I think we still have like a lot of work to do in terms of education. But by education, I mean really talking from a product perspective. What business problem I can solve for you, how it's going to be done, what is going to be the maintenance after, how you're going to deal with very specific use cases. And so you can have some teams that already have an understanding of what you can achieve, but we still need to provide, I think, as an ecosystem more structuring who you can work with, the different vendors, what services they can do, where they can help, what's the type of contract you're going to have after, and really giving that overall perspective of a new entrant in the market. And so some of them, they understand very well, and they have already some pretty detailed questions, even asking me, our red one we need to increase like the contract size from the 24 to uh 48 kilobytes and uh we have some you know like those those uh stack overflow issue like well known so yeah the stack tip one that was always a problem and so there is some of them it's this but but then some other ones in in this small product they're going to ask me okay Why should I go on an L2? What is the L1? What does it mean? And what about those changes? What are the primitives? Explaining like, well, if you build on any L2s, you're actually going to choose maybe one vendor in some way. But you can completely move your assets freely among all the ecosystem. The wallets are going to be the same. A lot of things are going to be equivalent that you don't have to rebuild.

SPEAKER_03: Mm-hmm.

SPEAKER_00: And, and so those are seeing, you know, like you, you need to explain some of them, maybe people they're going to say, well, what, what is, what is this? This is just like some, uh, some scammy or something like that. I think you can find all the layers, but, but now people, they also, they see like the potential of like what you can do with, uh, with digital, like digital assets, you know, tokenization. Right. And for like, people were a little bit like looking around. I'm very excited to see what's going to happen in the next 6 to 12 months. Because, you know, Genius Act was signed July 15 or something like this. Charity Act, I think, is still a little bit ongoing. So... now we like they're like and and we can also hear that like there's really companies from every direction say okay how how are we going to implement this the fintech is also moving so they're they're they're like the fact that they're building their l even if they're building the l1 i wish they would do some l2s and um my door will always be open uh when when you want to consider that there there is a pretty great tool that can help but but that's going to push the market from a financial institution to really adopting this. There is an organization like DTCC, the biggest clearinghouse in the world. All the securities in the world basically are being cleared over there. They released an incredible product four months ago in April, the Great Collateral. where they have a collection of hundreds of smart contracts that allows you to clear and to make some margin call and collateral management from different jurisdictions, which is a fantastic use case when you see... I'm not a collateral management expert, but I understand the value of how this unlocks. You actually have something that you can take from your... you're back in Japan that you're going to post for something in the US because you have a market event. And this is something you would not even imagine before. And now you can do it. And it's like compliant. It's actually like it's legal. And then that can unlock so much efficiencies. And so that's in the next few months, that's going to be a huge game changer.

SPEAKER_03: So it sounds like, you know, the lid has been lifted off and there's a ton of demand, but it's like walking down the path to supply that demand. That's the part that people are figuring out, right? Is that right?

SPEAKER_00: I think it's such a very transformative technology for how those businesses operate. There is also how I'm going to make money.

SPEAKER_03: Okay. So there's a fear element to it, right?

SPEAKER_00: It's like, well, now I can have like, I'm a PSP provider.

SPEAKER_02: Let me ask you this. So in the early days, it felt like there was a focus on more like back office use cases. Like, yeah, how do I move the collateral from like my Japan regional branch to my, you know, whatever. Business process improvements. Business process improvements. And I felt that there's eventually became a I think this started like 2020, 2021, a shift for big corporations wanting top line use cases like like Nike was the first to like sell a ton of NFTs. And then you're seeing like I think like the digital asset treasuries are a kind of genius way for a token to like like the company doesn't have to IPO. but like there could be a token and there can be something that's had provides the traditional protections of equity that's publicly traded. And then you didn't, you could just leave this part sort of where it was and somehow there's kind of like a merger going on. And, you know, this is a creating good top line revenue for investment banks and, you know, et cetera, et cetera. So like, is your, is your sense that, people want the efficiency to compete or like, are they starting to think about it as like a new revenue line or, you know, like a transformed revenue line or something?

SPEAKER_00: Well, that's a billion, trillion dollar question right there. I don't have the answer. What I could say is I see how I think if you look at operational optimization, it's more than that. If you capital flow more seamlessly, you make more money in a financial flow. So the more you have a flow of your money easy, the more you're going to be able to make some because you're going to unlock some opportunities some some capital improvements yet i think and from like conversation i've seen and and where where like the still don't have like the golden do say hey that's gonna remix a little bit of like all the different people and intermediaries and people working because If you suddenly have something that is being done in a much more efficient way, well, some different intermediates, they might have to rethink the way of doing their business. This is not going to happen from one day to another. What I can say is that because we're going to have those new forms of working with digital assets, that's going to be more like being a golden era for opportunities to build a pretty fantastic product. And the people that understand pretty well the ethos of the Ethereum ecosystem and also like blockchain in general. like some operation in traditional finance and be able to bridge those two, you, you're going to be able to bring like some amazing, amazing product. And that's what we see a little bit more with convergence, you know, of a Aave that is that doing like a collateral product with Horizon and, and, and knocking, you know, like you, you have like figure, like you have a spike or you have some, some of like how as, as we're going to have like now some assets that are on chain that maybe you can loan and you can collateralize and you can borrow money and you can have some, liquidity in front of those assets while being the action. And also, I want to stress, we say RWAs, RWAs, RWAs. There is a lot of... We need probably to find some new language because there is... You know how I feel about that.

SPEAKER_03: I think the RWA term is so broad.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, we need... This can be an RWA. Yeah, exactly. And I can also take a picture of my, I guess, my bank account and say, hey, this is a tokenization of my bank account. And so there is all of the ways, but most of them, they actually kind of elaborate IOUs. And now we're moving towards more and more having some standards and like, things like it's the legal tent. You want the native issue. The token is the legal claim to the asset. When this happens and when focusing on that, that's going to unlock some pretty incredible things. You connect this with DeFi, you're going to always need some form of AML, KYC and everything. like the, the, the, the defy, like the, like we've known for the last year, it's, They're probably going to have like two of those, but once you connect this, I think that's going to be pretty incredible.

SPEAKER_03: But how do the institutions feel about like, obviously as the head of the EA and you feel strongly about Ethereum, right? Like the Ethereum ecosystem broadly of L1s, O2s, like how do they feel about that? Do they see any other, you know, like we know that Ripple has tried to attract that interest for a really long time. Like, are they kind of sold on Ethereum at this point or are they, Are they still needing to be convinced?

SPEAKER_00: I've heard several executives at CYBO saying, Ethereum is the standard. EVM is the standard. This is the ecosystem. Having said that, and as decision makers, they also want to make sure they keep the door open and not being locked, so they move progressively. You know, 60% of the stablecoin issuance is on ECUM. I think probably 85 to 90% of all WAs, it's the same. Some similar statistics about DeFi activities. That's, you know, like electric capital, like you can see a graph like three times more like that than any other ecosystem in terms of like builders and everything. So that's the most radiant and advanced ecosystem in terms of research on every, every facet. And so that's, they know, they recognize. But it doesn't mean that we need to keep educating, to keep like, you know, working with the EF for instance, like they've been incredible work for the last few months of really packaging the message in a better way that can be more digestible. But there's more like some work for instance, like, you know, like the protocol team, they're already addressing so many of the fear, like can have some different like, you know, digital asset manager in financial institution. But how we bring that message to the right people, package it in a way that it's easy to understand, that's some of the work that is being done as we speak. And that's going to really help continuing solidifying that dominance position. But to also answer your question, some of those institutions they say hey we want to be multi-chain we want to look at everything which i think it's it's absolutely fair and i would do the same if i were in their shoe so okay well we they have some different assessment um you know criteria and they say well we're going to take this chain this chain this chain this chain and and then we'll see i mean go back to beyond evm i mean you've obviously got competition between ethereum and other evm flavors

SPEAKER_01: What is the competition outside of that? Because I know you've obviously got competition within that. But are institutions doing non-EVM things as well?

SPEAKER_02: There's like cantons around. I don't know what they're using. Do institutions use Salada at all? Well, I know, but does DA still have its own big proprietary-ish stack?

SPEAKER_01: It's not proprietary anymore, but yeah. Well, Hedera. No one using Hedera.

SPEAKER_00: What are you here? Competitive. Kenton is probably the most advanced in terms of like, you know, connection with the rest of the ecosystem. And I would say that not the rest, but the traditional finance, they have, they have like a way it's structured though. It's, It's something I still don't completely understand. You can be a validator, have some tokens that you can exchange on some private market. And so some form of revenue. And then they have already like that. It's a consortium, you know, like it's a quorum V2, I would say. And they've been able to bring into their governance like a lot of the different financial institutions. So, but then once again, And if you ask me, and I'm biased, of course, but this is an ecosystem. He has a Canton code. He's open source and everything. But, well, you're still building on a technology that is not super very, there's not a lot of people. When are you going to be the CIO of a company and you need to have some maintenance or something? It's going to be, what, like 20 guys in a country that can do some work on this? And so that's the way I look at this. But I think Solana, I'm not sure, was the institution.

SPEAKER_02: I don't hear anything institutional from Solana, but it seems popular nonetheless.

SPEAKER_03: Oddly enough, Ripple has been trying to do this for a long time, but I don't hear them brought up in the conversation that much.

SPEAKER_01: Nobody ever used Ripple.

SPEAKER_00: I've been in blockchain not as long as you guys, but really since 2019. And I spent like almost four years at ChainSafe. Very authentic, like, you know, builders, like crypto native protocol development. And I've been to conferences, you know, with the engineers and I asked them in a very candid way, I said, have you ever built on Ripple or on some other? And I had conversation with the engineers at ChainSafe. We had some polls and we had some conversation in the Slack, I remember.

SPEAKER_01: And no one really came up with some very... Just got an infinite war chest for marketing and lobbying.

SPEAKER_03: I mean, at one point, one of the cyborgs I went to years and years ago, right? Ripple was supposed to have a huge proof. And, you know, like, I guess Swift decided, oh, they're too much of a competitor. So they kicked them out.

SPEAKER_02: They were calling themselves the Swift killer. Right.

SPEAKER_03: They decided, like Ripple decided, you know what? We're just going to run our own conference in parallel with Cybos. They put on a parallel conference. And Vitalik was speaking at their conference. At the Ripple one? At the Ripple one. And I remember they had buses in front of the Cybos conference, like taking you to where their new conference was. And I remember like seeing Vitalik like run across, like looking for this conference. Cause like it was in this new place and like, we're all trying to, I remember like waving him like over here.

SPEAKER_00: It's it's people still using quarter archery. Like it's been bought out by Selena, Kordai Selena.

SPEAKER_01: I don't think they would. Really? I don't think they would actually in those terms. I think it's a partnership and a collaboration. So we're not absolutely, they weren't bought by.

SPEAKER_03: Not bought out, but yes. I mean, I will say.

SPEAKER_01: Anyone using Fabric still? Fabric?

SPEAKER_00: Well, yes. Behind the scene, the fabric is still very present. I think central banks and those type of more very close environment. I'm not sure. BIS, Bank of International Settlement, which is, for those who don't know, it's like 40 different international banks that work together to optimize, I would say, the collaboration and exchange. But they had a project, Agora, that they started a couple of months ago. Those are institutions where it takes much longer time, I think. But that's dancing in new projects? That's not the same. The same Agora. But I would imagine maybe they were having some POCs before. I know some few central banks, they run using Fabric. You know, like the

SPEAKER_01: It's probably like the asbestos, isn't it? It's just going to take years to check out.

SPEAKER_03: You need people in suits to support them. I will say, I think we're almost at 45 minutes. Everyone's been very generous with this time. I think we have some Do you have any final thoughts you want to share?

SPEAKER_00: Actually on Fabric, I know like IBM is working on a bridge between Fabric to, it's called Fabric X, to Ethereum. So you can see that online.

SPEAKER_01: Right. Well, one of their big sell at New York Blockchain Week in 2018 was their EVM integration. They did the... Yeah, the channel or whatever that they did do this bunching together. And that was using borough, right? Because you've got the borough borough went into hyperledger for. for Belu, and that was the continuation of that. ErisDB, Bonax, Onuend. That was never mainnet compatible, though. But there was that Go EVM within Hyperledger under the same licensing, so they could wham those together. And I mean, that's seven years ago. So yeah, I'm sure that they... They need to have an even better EVM story these days.

SPEAKER_00: To answer your question, EVM and Ethereum is really the standard as everyone, that's what they're saying. You go through some different stages. You have the chief innovation officer of Swift and some different institutions. They understand that. That's what they say. Everywhere I went on all those different panels, we had a panel at 8.30 on like permissionless, very private network. It was hosted by Applied Blockchain, a member of the EA. There was like Citibank, Linux Foundation, Decentralized Trust, Ubix, and me. And it was, we were full, there were people standing up, and there was, you know, the Swift Innovation Officers, some other banks that came to talk to us. People, they understand. Ethereum is definitely seen as the standard and the place where you want to build because that's where you have access to the most equity, the most users, the most vibrant DeFi ecosystem, which is something that is getting closer, I think, and say, well, maybe there is some way to make some money here. I don't know exactly. how, but there is some potential. So I think the future is very bright for us.

SPEAKER_01: And I think that ties very nicely back to the start of the conversation and about the thoughts for the EA and so on, was something that Jeremy Miller said in the opening speech on the opening day was, think of this as being like a router, an internet intranet. there's no reason why suitably modular code bases shouldn't serve all of these use cases, public and private. And what we did not want to happen, and I remember being driven very much by this, was saying, let's not have arbitrarily different code bases for these different things because we can't be asked having that conversation and making the effort to try and bridge those worlds um and that was really coming from that fabric and called a competition of of these big enterprises basically saw being told ethereum guys have got to get your stuff together or we're going to get mandated to use this other stuff and it doesn't matter what you want it's like the spending will have been spent and it's it's never coming back so i think it's from to my mind it's like really superb to see where we are it's like that's what we were thinking that was kind of the goal right is that this can be a standard for everything and yeah things were like immature and maybe you know you needed to be doing consortium chains and you needed to take these baby steps on the way and wait for the tech to catch up but really it's like this can be the answer for everything so yeah and i think that's where we are and we're talking more and more you know like ethereum foundation has has done an incredible job they have like an enterprise team also like that in conversation with everyone and they can have like they have access to all the different leaders and this has been very

SPEAKER_00: pretty fantastic and so the more we discuss about this and say hey you know there is no ceo of ethereum it's not a private company there's no ceo of internet you know has that yeah it was linux right so that's uh that that's something that is like catching up more and more and the more you know we're going that's also like the mission that's what we do idea you know like going to have this conversation doing events like bringing some people together uh from like a few events that we do and we try to remix like defy traditional finance institution like pure ethereum players and have all those people talking together that's how we make that you know moving forward

SPEAKER_03: Well, on that note, I think we'll wrap up. But where can people find more about you and EEA in general?

SPEAKER_00: Well, the website, we are present on all the social media. The website is enteastalliance.org. We have the same handle on Twitter, on LinkedIn. I'm also on LinkedIn and Twitter and try to post often some few articles and some insights. And there's some more work that I'm going to put together in a couple of weeks around other ways and everything. And also always looking for some large institution that would like to collaborate on some writing pieces. Yeah. So we can really put some like soft leadership and helping, you know, explaining what's being done. And I think bridging, you know, like the Ethereum world with the traditional finance also like something that we're pretty excited to do in a couple of weeks. Yeah, that's awesome. We'll be also in Singapore Fintech Week next month, in DEF CON in Argentina, and we'll be also in Abu Dhabi for Finance Week.

SPEAKER_03: Cool.

SPEAKER_01: And Bob, where can people find you? So, yeah, I'm on Twitter. Same as my name, Bob at Summerville with a W-I-L-L, not Ville, not Summerville.

SPEAKER_03: Not the German spelling.

SPEAKER_01: No.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. Karen?

SPEAKER_02: K. James Lubin on X, YouTube, et cetera.

SPEAKER_03: And you can find me on X at? Vic, V-I-C, the number four, W-O-N-G. Thank you for joining us for our first in-person roundtable.

SPEAKER_00: Thanks again. It's awesome. Thanks for coming. Take care.